<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/>
      <title>Psalms and Revelations</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <section class="sidebar">
         <div class="text">
            <p> Not sure where to start? You can explore the corpus by clicking on any
               individual tone or emotion, or you can combine them to see where they
               overlap! If you would like to look at one specific book in particular,
               check the box specified “Psalms” or “Revelations”. If you would like to
               look at the corpus as a whole, check the box labeled “All”. Emotions and
               tones can be checked independently of each other, but for best results,
               they should be checked together. Once checked, emotions will show up as
               color coded text, and tones will be underlined with color. </p>
         </div>
         <div class="texts-filtering-box">
            <h2 class="sidebar-header">I want to view:</h2>
            <div class="texts-filtering-container">
               <h3 class="sidebar-header">Psalms</h3><input type="checkbox" id="psalms" name="psalms" checked="checked"/><label for="psalms">Psalms</label></div>
            <div class="texts-filtering-container">
               <h3 class="sidebar-header">Revelations</h3><input type="checkbox" id="revelations" name="revelations" checked="checked"/><label for="revelations">Revelations</label></div>
            <div class="texts-filtering-container">
               <h3 class="sidebar-header">Both</h3><input type="checkbox" id="both" name="both" checked="checked"/><label for="both">Both</label></div>
         </div>
         <div class="attributes-filtering-box">
            <h2 class="sidebar-header">I want to look at:</h2>
            <div class="attributes-filtering-container">
               <h3 class="sidebar-header">Emotion</h3><input type="checkbox" id="joy" name="joy" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="joy">Joy</label><br/><input type="checkbox" id="sorrow" name="sorrow" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="sorrow">Sorrow</label><br/><input type="checkbox" id="anger" name="anger" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="anger">Anger</label><br/><input type="checkbox" id="contentment" name="contentment" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="contentment">Contentment</label><br/><input type="checkbox" id="fear" name="fear" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="fear">Fear</label><br/></div>
            <div class="attributes-filtering-container">
               <h3 class="sidebar-header">Tone</h3><input type="checkbox" id="pleading" name="pleading" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="pleading">Pleading</label><br/><input type="checkbox" id="petitioning" name="petitioning" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="petitioning">Petitioning</label><br/><input type="checkbox" id="violence" name="violence" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="violence">Violence</label><br/><input type="checkbox" id="boasting" name="boasting" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="boasting">Boasting</label><br/><input type="checkbox" id="anxiety" name="anxiety" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="anxiety">Anxiety</label><br/><input type="checkbox" id="praise" name="praise" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="praise">Praise</label><br/><input type="checkbox" id="fear2" name="fear2" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="fear2">Fear</label><br/><input type="checkbox" id="righteousness" name="righteousness" checked="checked" class="color"/><label for="righteousness">Righteousness</label><br/></div>
         </div>
      </section>
      <div class="corpus">
         <div class="corpora PSA">
            <h1>Psalms</h1>
            <h2>Chapter: 1</h2>
            <p> 
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed</span> is the man who <span class="joy righteousness color">doesn’t walk in the counsel of the wicked</span>,<span class="joy righteousness color">nor stand on the path of sinners</span>,<span class="joy righteousness color">nor sit in the seat of scoffers</span>;<br/>
               			2. but his <span class="joy praise color">delight</span> is in Yahweh’s law. On his law he <span class="contentment praise color">meditates</span> day and night.<br/>
               			3. He will be like a tree planted by the streams of water,that <span class="contentment praise color">produces its fruit in its season</span>,whose leaf also <span class="contentment praise color">does not wither</span>. Whatever he does shall <span class="joy praise color">prosper</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy righteousness color">The wicked are not so</span>,but are like the <span class="joy righteousness color">chaff</span> which the wind drives away.<br/>
               			5. Therefore <span class="contentment righteousness color">the wicked shall not stand in the judgment,nor sinners in the congregation of the
                  righteous.</span><br/>
               			6. For Yahweh knows the way of the <span class="joy praise color">righteous</span>,but <span class="joy righteousness color">the way of the wicked shall perish</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 2</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Why do the nations <span class="anger fear color">rage</span>,and the peoples <span class="anger anxiety color">plot a vain thing</span>?<br/>
               			2. <span class="anger anxiety color">The kings of the earth take a stand,and the rulers take counsel together,against Yahweh,
                  and against his Anointed</span>, saying,<br/>
               			3. “Let’s <span class="anger violence color">break</span> their bonds apart,and <span class="anger violence color">cast</span> their cords from us.”<br/>
               			4. <span class="contenment righteousness color">He who sits in the heavens will laugh. <span class="anger righteousness color">The Lord will have them in derision</span></span>.<br/>
               			5. Then <span class="anger righteousness color">he will speak to them in his anger</span>,and <span class="anger violence color">terrify them in his wrath</span><br/>
               			6. “Yet I have set my King on my holy hill of Zion.”<br/>
               			7. I will tell of the decree. Yahweh said to me, “<span class="joy praise color">You are my son. Today I have become your father</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise color">Ask of me, and I will give</span> the nations for your inheritance,the uttermost parts of the earth for your possession.<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger violence color">You shall break them with a rod of iron. You shall dash them in pieces like a potter’s
                  vessel</span>.”<br/>
               			10. Now therefore be wise, you kings. Be instructed, you judges of the earth.<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear praise color">Serve Yahweh with fear,and rejoice with trembling</span>.<br/>
               			12. Give <span class="joy praise color">sincere homage</span> to the Son, <span class="fear fear color">lest he be angry</span>, and you <span class="fear violence color">perish</span> on the way,for <span class="anger violence color">his wrath will soon be kindled</span>. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed are all those who take refuge in him</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 3</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Yahweh, <span class="fear anxiety color">how my adversaries have increased</span>!<span class="fear anxiety color">Many are those who rise up against me</span>.<br/>
               			2. Many there are who say of my soul,“<span class="fear anxiety color">There is no help for him in God</span>.”
               			<br/>
               			3. But you, Yahweh, are a <span class="joy praise color">shield around me</span>,<span class="joy praise color">my glory</span>, and <span class="joy praise color">the one who lifts up my head</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise color">I cry to Yahweh with my voice,and he answers me out of his holy hill</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment praise color">I laid myself down and slept.</span> I awakened; for <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh sustains me</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">I will not be afraid</span> of <span class="fear fear color">tens of thousands of people who have set themselves against me on every side</span>.<br/>
               			7. Arise, Yahweh!<span class="fear petitioning color">Save me, my God</span>!For <span class="joy violence color">you have struck all of my enemies on the cheek bone.</span> <span class="joy violence color">You have broken the teeth of the wicked.</span><br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise color">Salvation</span> belongs to Yahweh. <span class="joy praise color">Your blessing be on your people</span>. 
               			
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 4</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading color">Answer me</span> when I call, <span class="joy praise righteousness color">God of my righteousness</span>. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Give me relief from my distress</span>. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Have mercy on me, and hear my prayer</span>.<br/>
               			2. You sons of men, <span class="anger anxiety color">how long shall my glory be turned into dishonor</span>?<span class="anger anxiety color">Will you love vanity, and seek after falsehood</span>?
               			<br/>
               			3. But know that <span class="joy righteousness color">Yahweh has set apart for himself him who is godly</span>:<span class="joy praise color">Yahweh will hear when I call to him</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy righteousness color">Stand in awe, and don’t sin</span>. Search your own heart on your bed, and be still. 
               			<br/>
               			5. Offer the <span class="contentment righteousness color">sacrifices of righteousness</span>. <span class="contentment praise color">Put your trust in Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			6. Many say, “Who will show us any good?”Yahweh, <span class="joy petitioning color">let the light of your face shine on us</span>.<br/>
               			7. You have put <span class="joy praise color">gladness in my heart</span>,more than when their grain and their new wine are increased.<br/>
               			8. In <span class="contentment praise color">peace</span> I will both lay myself down and sleep,for you, Yahweh alone, <span class="contentment petitioning color">make me live in safety</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 5</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Give ear to my words, Yahweh. Consider my meditation</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear pleading color">Listen to the voice of my cry, my King and my God;for I pray to you</span>.<br/>
               			3. Yahweh, in the morning <span class="contentment petitioning color">you shall hear my voice</span>. In the morning <span class="contentment petitioning color">I will lay my requests before you</span>, and will <span class="contentment petitioning color">watch expectantly</span>.<br/>
               			4. For <span class="joy praise color">you are not a God who has pleasure in wickedness</span>. <span class="joy praise color">Evil can’t live with you</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy righteousness color">The arrogant shall not stand in your sight</span>. <span class="joy violence color">You hate all workers of iniquity</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy violence color">You will destroy those who speak lies</span>. <span class="anger violence color">Yahweh abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man</span>.<br/>
               			7. But as for me, in the <span class="joy praise color">abundance of your loving kindness</span> I will come into your house. <span class="joy praise color">I will bow toward your holy temple in reverence of you</span>.<br/>
               			8. Lead me, Yahweh, <span class="anger righteousness color">in your righteousness because of my enemies</span>. Make your way straight before my face.<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger righteousness color">For there is no faithfulness in their mouth</span>. <span class="anger violence color">Their heart is destruction</span>. Their throat is an open tomb. They flatter with their tongue.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger righteousness color">Hold them guilty</span>, God. <span class="anger righteousness color">Let them fall by their own counsels</span>;<span class="anger violence color">Thrust them out</span> in the multitude of their transgressions,for they have rebelled against you.<br/>
               			11. But let all those who take refuge in you <span class="joy praise color">rejoice</span>,Let them always <span class="joy praise color">shout for joy</span>, because you <span class="joy righteousness color">defend</span> them. <span class="joy praise color">Let them also who love your name be joyful in you</span>.<br/>
               			12. For you will <span class="joy praise color">bless the righteous</span>. Yahweh, you will <span class="joy righteousness color">surround him with favor as with a shield</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 6</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Yahweh, <span class="fear pleading color">don’t rebuke me in your anger</span>,<span class="fear pleading color">neither discipline me in your wrath</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear pleading color">Have mercy on me</span>, Yahweh, for I am <span class="fear fear color">faint</span>. Yahweh, <span class="fear pleading color">heal me</span>, for <span class="sorrow anxiety color">my bones are troubled</span>.<br/>
               			3. My soul is also in <span class="fear anxiety color">great anguish</span>. But you, Yahweh—how long?<br/>
               			4. Return, Yahweh. <span class="fear pleading color">Deliver my soul</span>,and <span class="sorrow pleading color">save me for your loving kindness’ sake</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">For in death there is no memory of you</span>. In Sheol, who shall give you thanks?<br/>
               			6. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I am weary with my groaning</span>. <span class="sorrow violence color">Every night I flood my bed. I drench my couch with my tears</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="sorrow violence color">My eye wastes away because of grief</span>. It grows old because of all my adversaries.<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment praise color">Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity,for Yahweh has heard the voice of my weeping</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh has heard my supplication. Yahweh accepts my prayer</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger righteousness color">May all my enemies be ashamed and dismayed</span>. <span class="anger righteousness color">They shall turn back</span>, <span class="anger violence color">they shall be disgraced suddenly</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 7</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Yahweh, my God, I take <span class="contentment praise color">refuge</span> in you. <span class="fear pleading color">Save me</span> from all those who pursue me, and <span class="fear pleading color">deliver me</span>,<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear violence color">lest they tear apart my soul like a lion,ripping it in pieces</span>, while there is no one to deliver.<br/>
               			3. Yahweh, my God, if I have done this,if there is <span class="fear anxiety color">iniquity</span> in my hands,<br/>
               			4. if I have <span class="fear anxiety color">rewarded evil to him who was at peace with me</span>(yes, I have <span class="fear violence color">delivered him who without cause was my adversary</span>),<br/>
               			5. <span class="sorrow violence color">let the enemy pursue my soul, and overtake it</span>;yes, <span class="sorrow violence color">let him tread my life down to the earth,and lay my glory in the dust</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			6. Arise, Yahweh, <span class="anger righteousness color">in your anger</span>. <span class="joy righteousness color">Lift up yourself against the rage of my adversaries</span>. Awake for me. You have commanded <span class="contentment righteousness color">judgment</span>.<br/>
               			7. Let the congregation of the peoples surround you. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Rule over them on high</span>.<br/>
               			8. Yahweh administers <span class="fear righteousness color">judgment</span> to the peoples. <span class="fear righteousness color">Judge me, Yahweh, according to my righteousness</span>,and to my integrity that is in me.<br/>
               			9. Oh <span class="anger violence color">let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end</span>,but <span class="joy righteousness color">establish the righteous</span>;their minds and hearts are searched by the <span class="joy praise color">righteous God</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger righteousness color">My shield is with God,who saves the upright in heart</span>.<br/>
               			11. God is a <span class="fear righteousness color">righteous judge</span>,yes, a God who has <span class="anger righteousness color">indignation</span> every day.<br/>
               			12. If a man doesn’t <span class="fear anxiety color">repent</span>, <span class="fear violence color">he will sharpen his sword;he has bent and strung his bow</span>.<br/>
               			13. He has also prepared for himself the <span class="fear violence color">instruments of death</span>. He makes ready his <span class="fear violence color">flaming arrows</span>.<br/>
               			14. Behold, <span class="anger righteousness color">he travails with iniquity</span>. Yes, he has conceived <span class="anger righteousness color">mischief</span>,and brought out <span class="anger righteousness color">falsehood</span>.<br/>
               			15. He has dug a hole,and has <span class="anger violence color">fallen into the pit</span> which he made.<br/>
               			16. <span class="anger righteousness color">The trouble he causes shall return to his own head. His violence shall come down on
                  the crown of his own head.</span><br/>
               			17. I will <span class="joy praise color">give thanks</span> to Yahweh according to his righteousness,and will <span class="joy praise color">sing praise</span> to the name of Yahweh Most High.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 8</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Yahweh, our Lord, <span class="joy praise color">how majestic is your name in all the earth</span>!<span class="joy praise color">You have set your glory above the heavens</span>!<br/>
               			2. From the lips of babes and infants you have <span class="joy praise color">established strength</span>,because of your adversaries, <span class="joy violence color">that you might silence the enemy and the avenger</span>.<br/>
               			3. When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers,the moon and the stars, which
               you have ordained;<br/>
               			4. what is man, that you think of him?What is the son of man, that you care for him?<br/>
               			5. For <span class="joy praise color">you have made him a little lower than the angels</span>,and <span class="joy praise color">crowned him with glory and honor</span>.<br/>
               			6. You make him <span class="joy praise color">ruler over the works of your hands</span>. You have <span class="joy praise color">put all things under his feet</span>:<br/>
               			7. All sheep and cattle,yes, and the animals of the field,<br/>
               			8. the birds of the sky, the fish of the sea,and whatever passes through the paths of
               the seas.<br/>
               			9. Yahweh, our Lord,<span class="joy praise color">how majestic is your name in all the earth</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 9</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">I will give thanks to Yahweh with my whole heart</span>. I will tell of all your <span class="joy praise color">marvelous works</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">I will be glad and rejoice in you</span>. <span class="joy praise color">I will sing praise to your name</span>, O Most High.<br/>
               			3. When my enemies turn back,<span class="contentment violence color">they stumble and perish in your presence</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment praise color">For you have maintained my just cause</span>. You sit on the throne judging righteously.<br/>
               			5. You have <span class="anger righteousness color">rebuked</span> the nations. <span class="anger violence color">You have destroyed the wicked</span>. <span class="anger violence color">You have blotted out their name forever and ever</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger violence color">The enemy is overtaken by endless ruin</span>. The very memory of the cities which you have overthrown has <span class="anger violence color">perished</span>.<br/>
               			7. But <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh reigns forever</span>. He has prepared his throne for judgment.<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment praise color">He will judge the world in righteousness</span>. He will <span class="contentment righteousness color">administer judgment</span> to the peoples in uprightness.<br/>
               			9. Yahweh will also be a high tower for the oppressed;a high tower in times of trouble.<br/>
               			10. Those who know your name will put their trust in you,for you, Yahweh, <span class="contentmenr praise color">have not forsaken those who seek you</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise color">Sing praises</span> to Yahweh, who dwells in Zion,and declare among the people what he has done.<br/>
               			12. For <span class="anger violence color">he who avenges blood remembers them</span>. He doesn’t forget the <span class="sorrow fear color">cry of the afflicted</span>.<br/>
               			13. Have mercy on me, Yahweh. <span class="anger pleading color">See my affliction by those who hate me,and lift me up from the gates of death</span>;<br/>
               			14. <span class="joy praise color">that I may show all of your praise</span>. In the gates of the daughter of Zion, I will <span class="joy praise color">rejoice in your salvation</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">The nations have sunk down in the pit that they made</span>. In the net which they hid, <span class="sorrow anxiety color">their own foot is taken</span>.<br/>
               			16. Yahweh has made himself known. <span class="joy righteousness color">He has executed judgment</span>. <span class="anger righteousness color">The wicked is snared by the work of his own hands</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			17. <span class="anger righteousness color">The wicked shall be turned back to Sheol</span>,even all the nations that forget God.<br/>
               			18. <span class="joy petitioning color">For the needy shall not always be forgotten,nor the hope of the poor perish forever</span>.<br/>
               			19. <span class="anger petitioning color">Arise, Yahweh! Don’t let man prevail. Let the nations be judged in your sight.</span><br/>
               			20. <span class="anger pleading color">Put them in fear</span>, Yahweh. <span class="anger petitioning righteousness color">Let the nations know that they are only men</span>. 
               			
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 10</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Why do you stand far off, Yahweh?<span class="fear pleading color">Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble</span>?<br/>
               			2. In arrogance, <span class="anger violence color">the wicked hunt down the weak</span>. They are caught in the schemes that they devise.<br/>
               			3. For <span class="anger boasting color">the wicked boasts of his heart’s cravings</span>. <span class="anger boasting color">He blesses the greedy, and condemns Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			4. The wicked, in the <span class="anger boasting color">pride</span> of his face,has no room in his thoughts for God.<br/>
               			5. His ways are prosperous at all times. He is <span class="anger boasting color">arrogant</span>, and your laws are far from his sight. As for all his adversaries, he <span class="anger boasting color">sneers</span> at them.<br/>
               			6. He says in his heart, “<span class="anger boasting color">I shall not be shaken. For generations I shall have no trouble</span>.”<br/>
               			7. His mouth is full of <span class="anger violence color">cursing, deceit, and oppression</span>. Under his tongue is <span class="anger violence color">mischief and iniquity</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger violence color">He lies in wait near the villages. From ambushes, he murders the innocent. His eyes
                  are secretly set against the helpless</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger violence color">He lurks in secret as a lion in his ambush. He lies in wait to catch the helpless.
                  He catches the helpless, when he draws him in his net</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger violence color">The helpless are crushed. They collapse. They fall under his strength</span>.<br/>
               			11. He says in his heart, “<span class="anger boasting color">God has forgotten. He hides his face. He will never see it</span>.”<br/>
               			12. <span class="fear pleading color">Arise, Yahweh!God, lift up your hand!Don’t forget the helpless</span>.<br/>
               			13. Why does the <span class="anger righteousness color">wicked person condemn God</span>,and say in his heart, “<span class="anger petitioning color">God won’t call me into account</span>?”<br/>
               			14. But you do see <span class="sorrow fear color">trouble and grief</span>. You consider it to take it into your hand. <span class="joy praise color">You help the victim and the fatherless</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">Break the arm of the wicked</span>. As for the evil man, <span class="anger righteousness color">seek out his wickedness until you find none</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is King forever and ever</span>!<span class="joy righteousness violence color">The nations will perish out of his land</span>.<br/>
               			17. Yahweh, you have heard the desire of the humble. <span class="joy petitioning righteousness color">You will prepare their heart</span>. You will cause your ear to hear,<br/>
               			18. to <span class="contentment petitioning righteousness color">judge the fatherless and the oppressed</span>,<span class="joy righteousness color">that man who is of the earth may terrify no more</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 11</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">In Yahweh, I take refuge</span>. How can you say to my soul, “Flee as a bird to your mountain”?<br/>
               			2. For, behold, <span class="fear violence color">the wicked bend their bows</span>. They set their arrows on the strings,<span class="fear violence color">that they may shoot in darkness at the upright in heart</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear anxiety violence color">If the foundations are destroyed,what can the righteous do</span>?<br/>
               			4. Yahweh is in his holy temple. Yahweh is on his throne in heaven. His eyes observe.
               His eyes examine the children of men.<br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Yahweh examines the righteous</span>,but <span class="joy righteousness violence color">the wicked and him who loves violence his soul hates</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy violence righteousness color">On the wicked he will rain blazing coals;fire, sulfur, and scorching wind shall be
                  the portion of their cup</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise color">For Yahweh is righteous. He loves righteousness. The upright shall see his face</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 12</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading color">Help, Yahweh</span>; for the godly man ceases. For <span class="anger fear color">the faithful fail from among the children of men</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="anger fear color">Everyone lies to his neighbor. They speak with flattering lips, and with a double
                  heart</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger violence righteousness color">May Yahweh cut off all flattering lips,and the tongue that boasts</span>,<br/>
               			4. who have said, “<span class="anger boasting color">With our tongue we will prevail. Our lips are our own. Who is lord over us</span>?”<br/>
               			5. “<span class="anger righteousness color">Because of the oppression of the weak and because of the groaning of the needy</span>,I will now arise,” says Yahweh;“<span class="anger righteousness color">I will set him in safety from those who malign him</span>.”<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh’s words are flawless words,as silver refined in a clay furnace, purified seven
                  times</span>.<br/>
               			7. You will keep them, Yahweh. <span class="joy petitioning color">You will preserve them from this generation forever</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger fear color">The wicked walk on every side,when what is vile is exalted among the sons of men</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 13</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="sorrow pleading color">How long, Yahweh?Will you forget me forever?How long will you hide your face from
                  me</span>?<br/>
               			2. <span class="sorrow pleading color">How long shall I take counsel in my soul,having sorrow in my heart every day?How long
                  shall my enemy triumph over me</span>?<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear petitioning color">Behold, and answer me, Yahweh, my God. Give light to my eyes, lest I sleep in death</span>;<br/>
               			4. lest my enemy say, “I have prevailed against him;”<span class="sorrow anxiety color">lest my adversaries rejoice when I fall</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment righteousness color">But I trust in your loving kindness</span>. <span class="joy praise color">My heart rejoices in your salvation</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">I will sing to Yahweh,because he has been good to me</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 14</h2>
            <p>
               			1. The fool has said in his heart, “<span class="anger boasting color">There is no God</span>.”<span class="anger righteousness fear color">They are corrupt. They have done abominable deeds. There is no one who does good</span>.<br/>
               			2. Yahweh looked down from heaven on the children of men,to see if there were any who
               understood,who sought after God.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger fear color">They have all gone aside. They have together become corrupt. There is no one who does
                  good, no, not one.</span><br/>
               			4. <span class="anger pleading anxiety color">Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge,who eat up my people as they eat bread,and
                  don’t call on Yahweh</span>?<br/>
               			5. There they were in great fear,for God is in the generation of the righteous.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">You frustrate the plan of the poor,because Yahweh is his refuge</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy pleading color">Oh that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion</span>!<span class="joy praise color">When Yahweh restores the fortunes of his people,then Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel
                  shall be glad</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 15</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Yahweh, who shall dwell in your sanctuary?Who shall live on your holy hill?<br/>
               			2. <span class="contentment righteousness color">He who walks blamelessly and does what is right,and speaks truth in his heart</span>;<br/>
               			3. <span class="contentment righteousness violence color">he who doesn’t slander with his tongue,nor does evil to his friend,nor casts slurs
                  against his fellow man</span>;<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment righteousness praise color">in whose eyes a vile man is despised,but who honors those who fear Yahweh;he who keeps
                  an oath even when it hurts, and doesn’t change</span>;<br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment righteousness praise color">he who doesn’t lend out his money for usury,nor take a bribe against the innocent</span>. <span class="joy righteousness praise color">He who does these things shall never be shaken</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 16</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear petitioning praise color">Preserve me, God, for I take refuge in you</span>.<br/>
               			2. My soul, you have said to Yahweh, “<span class="joy praise color">You are my Lord. Apart from you I have no good thing</span>.”<br/>
               			3. As for the saints who are in the earth,<span class="joy praise color">they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">Their sorrows shall be multiplied who give gifts to another god. Their drink offerings
                  of blood I will not offer,nor take their names on my lips.</span><br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Yahweh assigned my portion and my cup. You made my lot secure</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. Yes, I have a good inheritance</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise color">I will bless Yahweh</span>, who has given me counsel. Yes, my heart instructs me in the night seasons.<br/>
               			8. I have set Yahweh always before me. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise color">Therefore my heart is glad, and my tongue rejoices. My body shall also dwell in safety</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy praise color">For you will not leave my soul in Sheol,neither will you allow your holy one to see
                  corruption</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise color">You will show me the path of life. In your presence is fullness of joy. In your right
                  hand there are pleasures forever more</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 17</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Hear, Yahweh, my righteous plea;Give ear to my prayer, that doesn’t go out of deceitful
                  lips</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Let my sentence come out of your presence. Let your eyes look on equity</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy righteousness color">You have proved my heart. You have visited me in the night. You have tried me, and
                  found nothing. I have resolved that my mouth shall not disobey</span>.<br/>
               			4. As for the deeds of men, by the word of your lips,<span class="contentment righteousness color">I have kept myself from the ways of the violent</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment righteousness color">My steps have held fast to your paths. My feet have not slipped</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="contentment petitioning color">I have called on you, for you will answer me, God. Turn your ear to me. Hear my speech</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy petitioning praise color">Show your marvelous loving kindness,you who save those who take refuge by your right
                  hand from their enemies</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Keep me as the apple of your eye. Hide me under the shadow of your wings</span>,<br/>
               			9. <span class="fear petitioning violence color">from the wicked who oppress me,my deadly enemies, who surround me</span>.<br/>
               			10. They close up their callous hearts. <span class="anger boasting righteousness color">With their mouth they speak proudly</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear anxiety color">They have now surrounded us in our steps. They set their eyes to cast us down to the
                  earth</span>.<br/>
               			12. He is like a lion that is greedy of his prey,as it were a young lion <span class="fear anxiety color">lurking in secret places</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger pleading violence color">Arise, Yahweh, confront him. Cast him down. Deliver my soul from the wicked by your
                  sword</span>;<br/>
               			14. from men by your hand, Yahweh,from men of the world, whose portion is in this life.
               <span class="contentment praise color">You fill the belly of your cherished ones. Your sons have plenty,and they store up
                  wealth for their children</span>.<br/>
               			15. As for me, <span class="joy righteousness praise color">I shall see your face in righteousness. I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with seeing
                  your form</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 18</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">I love you, Yahweh, my strength</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer;my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge;my
                  shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy petitioning color">I call on Yahweh, who is worthy to be praised</span>;and <span class="joy praise color">I am saved from my enemies</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="fear fear color">The cords of death surrounded me. The floods of ungodliness made me afraid</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="fear fear color">The cords of Sheol were around me. The snares of death came on me</span>.<br/>
               			6. In my distress <span class="fear pleading color">I called on Yahweh,and cried to my God</span>. He heard my voice out of his temple. My cry before him came into his ears.<br/>
               			7. Then <span class="anger violence color">the earth shook and trembled. The foundations also of the mountains quaked and were
                  shaken</span>,because <span class="anger righteousness color">he was angry</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger violence color">Smoke went out of his nostrils. Consuming fire came out of his mouth</span>. Coals were kindled by it.<br/>
               			9. He bowed the heavens also, and came down. Thick darkness was under his feet.<br/>
               			10. He rode on a cherub, and flew. Yes, he soared on the wings of the wind.<br/>
               			11. He made darkness his hiding place, his pavilion around him,darkness of waters, thick
               clouds of the skies.<br/>
               			12. At the brightness before him his thick clouds passed,<span class="anger violence color">hailstones and coals of fire</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger violence color">Yahweh also thundered in the sky</span>. The Most High uttered his voice:hailstones and coals of fire.<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger violence color">He sent out his arrows, and scattered them;Yes, great lightning bolts, and routed
                  them</span>.<br/>
               			15. Then the channels of waters appeared. The foundations of the world were <span class="anger violence color">laid bare at your rebuke</span>, Yahweh,at the blast of the breath of your nostrils.<br/>
               			16. <span class="joy praise color">He sent from on high. He took me. He drew me out of many waters</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="joy praise color">He delivered me from my strong enemy</span>,from those who hated me; for they were too mighty for me.<br/>
               			18. They came on me in the day of my calamity,but <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh was my support</span>.<br/>
               			19. <span class="joy praise color">He brought me out also into a large place. He delivered me, because he delighted in
                  me</span>.<br/>
               			20. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness. According to the cleanness of
                  my hands, he has recompensed me</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="joy righteousness color">For I have kept the ways of Yahweh,and have not wickedly departed from my God</span>.<br/>
               			22. For all his ordinances were before me. <span class="joy righteousness color">I didn’t put away his statutes from me</span>.<br/>
               			23. <span class="joy righteousness color">I was also blameless with him. I kept myself from my iniquity</span>.<br/>
               			24. <span class="joy righteousness praise color">Therefore Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness,according to the cleanness
                  of my hands in his eyesight</span>.<br/>
               			25. <span class="joy praise color">With the merciful you will show yourself merciful. With the perfect man, you will
                  show yourself perfect</span>.<br/>
               			26. <span class="joy praise color">With the pure, you will show yourself pure. With the crooked you will show yourself
                  shrewd.</span><br/>
               			27. For <span class="joy praise color">you will save the afflicted people</span>,but <span class="joy praise violence color">the arrogant eyes you will bring down</span>.<br/>
               			28. <span class="joy praise color">For you will light my lamp, Yahweh. My God will light up my darkness</span>.<br/>
               			29. <span class="joy righteousness color">For by you, I advance through a troop. By my God, I leap over a wall</span>.<br/>
               			30. As for God, <span class="joy praise righteousness color">his way is perfect. Yahweh’s word is tried. He is a shield to all those who take refuge
                  in him.</span><br/>
               			31. For who is God, except Yahweh?<span class="joy praise color">Who is a rock, besides our God</span>,<br/>
               			32. <span class="joy praise color">the God who arms me with strength, and makes my way perfect</span>?<br/>
               			33. <span class="joy praise color">He makes my feet like deer’s feet,and sets me on my high places</span>.<br/>
               			34. <span class="joy praise violence color">He teaches my hands to war,so that my arms bend a bow of bronze</span>.<br/>
               			35. <span class="joy praise color">You have also given me the shield of your salvation. Your right hand sustains me.
                  Your gentleness has made me great.</span><br/>
               			36. <span class="joy praise color">You have enlarged my steps under me,My feet have not slipped.</span><br/>
               			37. <span class="joy violence color">I will pursue my enemies, and overtake them. I won’t turn away until they are consumed</span>.<br/>
               			38. <span class="joy violence color">I will strike them through, so that they will not be able to rise. They shall fall
                  under my feet</span>.<br/>
               			39. <span class="joy praise violence color">For you have armed me with strength to the battle. You have subdued under me those
                  who rose up against me.</span><br/>
               			40. <span class="joy praise violence color">You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me,that I might cut off those who
                  hate me</span>.<br/>
               			41. <span class="joy praise violence color">They cried, but there was no one to save;even to Yahweh, but he didn’t answer them</span>.<br/>
               			42. <span class="joy violence color">Then I beat them small as the dust before the wind. I cast them out as the mire of
                  the streets</span>.<br/>
               			43. <span class="joy praise color">You have delivered me from the strivings of the people. You have made me the head
                  of the nations</span>. A people whom I have not known shall serve me.<br/>
               			44. <span class="joy violence color">As soon as they hear of me they shall obey me. The foreigners shall submit themselves
                  to me</span>.<br/>
               			45. <span class="joy violence color">The foreigners shall fade away,and shall come trembling out of their strongholds</span>.<br/>
               			46. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh lives; and blessed be my rock. Exalted be the God of my salvation</span>,<br/>
               			47. <span class="joy praise violence color">even the God who executes vengeance for me,and subdues peoples under me</span>.<br/>
               			48. <span class="joy praise violence color">He rescues me from my enemies. Yes, you lift me up above those who rise up against
                  me. You deliver me from the violent man</span>.<br/>
               			49. <span class="joy praise color">Therefore I will give thanks to you, Yahweh, among the nations,and will sing praises
                  to your name</span>.<br/>
               			50. <span class="joy praise color">He gives great deliverance</span> to his king,and <span class="joy praise color">shows loving kindness to his anointed</span>,to David and to his offspring, forever more.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 19</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">The heavens declare the glory of God. The expanse shows his handiwork</span>.<br/>
               			2. Day after day they pour out speech,and night after night they display knowledge.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">There is no speech nor language,where their voice is not heard</span>.<br/>
               			4. Their voice has gone out through all the earth,their words to the end of the world.
               In them he has set a tent for the sun,<br/>
               			5. which is as a bridegroom coming out of his room,like a strong man rejoicing to run
               his course.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">His going out is from the end of the heavens,his circuit to its ends</span>;There is nothing hidden from its heat.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Yahweh’s law is perfect, restoring the soul. Yahweh’s covenant is sure, making wise
                  the simple</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Yahweh’s precepts are right, rejoicing the heart. Yahweh’s commandment is pure, enlightening
                  the eyes</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">The fear of Yahweh is clean, enduring forever. Yahweh’s ordinances are true, and righteous
                  altogether</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy praise color">Thoy are more to be desired than gold</span>, yes, than much fine gold;<span class="joy praise color">sweeter also than honey</span> and the extract of the honeycomb.<br/>
               			11. Moreover your servant is warned by them. In keeping them there is great reward.<br/>
               			12. Who can discern his errors?<span class="sorrow petitioning color">Forgive me from hidden errors</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger petitioning righteousness color">Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over
                  me</span>. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Then I will be upright. I will be blameless and innocent of great transgression</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="joy petitioning color">Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight</span>,Yahweh, <span class="joy praise color">my rock, and my redeemer</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 20</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">May Yahweh answer you in the day of trouble. May the name of the God of Jacob set
                  you up on high</span>,<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">send you help from the sanctuary,grant you support from Zion</span>,<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">remember all your offerings,and accept your burned sacrifice</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">May he grant you your heart’s desire,and fulfill all your counsel</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">We will triumph in your salvation. In the name of our God, we will set up our banners</span>. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">May Yahweh grant all your requests</span>.<br/>
               			6. Now I know that <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh saves his anointed</span>. <span class="joy praise color">He will answer him from his holy heaven</span>,with the saving strength of his right hand.<br/>
               			7. Some trust in chariots, and some in horses,but <span class="joy praise color">we trust in the name of Yahweh our God</span>.<br/>
               			8. They are bowed down and fallen,but <span class="joy righteousness color">we rise up, and stand upright</span>.<br/>
               			9. Save, Yahweh!Let the King answer us when we call!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 21</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">The king rejoices in your strength</span>, Yahweh!<span class="joy praise color">How greatly he rejoices in your salvation</span>!<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">You have given him his heart’s desire,and have not withheld the request of his lips</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			3. For you meet him with the <span class="joy praise color">blessings of goodness</span>. <span class="joy praise color">You set a crown of fine gold on his head</span>.<br/>
               			4. He asked life of you, <span class="joy praise color">you gave it to him</span>,even length of days forever and ever.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">His glory is great in your salvation. You lay honor and majesty on him</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">For you make him most blessed forever. You make him glad with joy in your presence</span>.<br/>
               			7. For the king trusts in Yahweh. Through the <span class="joy praise color">loving kindness</span> of the Most High, he shall not be moved.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise violence color">Your hand will find out all of your enemies. Your right hand will find out those who
                  hate you</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise violence color">You will make them as a fiery furnace in the time of your anger. Yahweh will swallow
                  them up in his wrath. The fire shall devour them</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy praise violence color">You will destroy their descendants from the earth,their posterity from among the children
                  of men</span>.<br/>
               			11. For <span class="anger violence color">they intended evil against you</span>. <span class="anger violence righteousness color">They plotted evil against you which cannot succeed</span>.<br/>
               			12. For you will make them turn their back,<span class="joy violence color">when you aim drawn bows at their face</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="joy praise color">Be exalted, Yahweh, in your strength,so we will sing and praise your power</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 22</h2>
            <p>
               			1. My God, my God, <span class="sorrow pleading color">why have you forsaken me</span>?Why are you so far from helping me, and from the words of my groaning?<br/>
               			2. My God, <span class="sorrow pleading color">I cry in the daytime, but you don’t answer</span>;in the night season, and am not silent.<br/>
               			3. But <span class="sorrow praise color">you are holy</span>,you who inhabit the praises of Israel.<br/>
               			4. Our fathers trusted in you. They trusted, and you delivered them.<br/>
               			5. They cried to you, and were <span class="sorrow praise color">delivered</span>. They trusted in you, and <span class="sorrow praise color">were not disappointed</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">But I am a worm, and no man</span>;<span class="sorrow anxiety color">a reproach of men, and despised by the people</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger anxiety color">All those who see me mock me. They insult me with their lips. They shake their heads</span>, saying,<br/>
               			8. “He trusts in Yahweh. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, since he delights in him</span>.”<br/>
               			9. <span class="contentment praise color">But you brought me out of the womb. You made me trust while at my mother’s breasts</span>.<br/>
               			10. I was thrown on you from my mother’s womb. You are my God since my mother bore me.<br/>
               			11. Don’t be far from me, for <span class="fear anxiety color">trouble is near</span>. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">For there is no one to help</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="fear fear color">Many bulls have surrounded me. Strong bulls of Bashan have encircled me</span>.<br/>
               			13. They open their mouths wide against me,lions <span class="fear fear violence color">tearing prey and roaring</span>.<br/>
               			14. I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax;it
               is melted within me.<br/>
               			15. My strength is dried up like a potsherd. My tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth.
               <span class="fear fear violence color">You have brought me into the dust of death</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="fear fear violence color">For dogs have surrounded me. A company of evildoers have enclosed me. They have pierced
                  my hands and feet</span>.<br/>
               			17. I can count all of my bones. <span class="fear anxiety color">They look and stare at me</span>.<br/>
               			18. They divide my garments among them. They cast lots for my clothing.<br/>
               			19. But <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">don’t be far off</span>, Yahweh. <span class="fear praise color">You are my help</span>: <span class="fear pleading color">hurry to help me</span>.<br/>
               			20. <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">Deliver my soul from the sword,my precious life from the power of the dog</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="fear pleading color">Save me from the lion’s mouth!Yes, from the horns of the wild oxen</span>, <span class="fear praise color">you have answered me</span>.<br/>
               			22. I will declare your name to my brothers. Among the assembly, <span class="fear praise color">I will praise you</span>.<br/>
               			23. <span class="fear praise righteousness color">You who fear Yahweh, praise him</span>!All you descendants of Jacob, <span class="contentment praise color">glorify him</span>!<span class="fear praise color">Stand in awe of him</span>, all you descendants of Israel!<br/>
               			24. For he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted,Neither has he
               hidden his face from him;but when he cried to him, <span class="joy praise color">he heard</span>.<br/>
               			25. <span class="contentment praise color">My praise of you comes in the great assembly. I will pay my vows before those who
                  fear him</span>.<br/>
               			26. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">The humble shall eat and be satisfied. They shall praise Yahweh who seek after him.
                  Let your hearts live forever</span>.<br/>
               			27. <span class="joy praise color">All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to Yahweh</span>. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">All the relatives of the nations shall worship before you</span>.<br/>
               			28. <span class="joy praise color">For the kingdom is Yahweh’s. He is the ruler over the nations</span>.<br/>
               			29. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">All the rich ones of the earth shall eat and worship. All those who go down to the
                  dust shall bow before him,even he who can’t keep his soul alive</span>.<br/>
               			30. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Posterity shall serve him. Future generations shall be told about the Lord</span>.<br/>
               			31. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">They shall come and shall declare his righteousness to a people that shall be born,for
                  he has done it</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 23</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is my shepherd:I shall lack nothing</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">He restores my soul</span>. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">He guides me in the paths of righteousness for his name’s sake</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="fear praise righteousness color">Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,I will fear no evil,
                  for you are with me. Your rod and your staff,they comfort me</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">You prepare a table before mein the presence of my enemies</span>. <span class="joy praise color">You anoint my head with oil. My cup runs over</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Surely goodness and loving kindness shall follow me all the days of my life,and I
                  will dwell in Yahweh’s house forever</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 24</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">The earth is Yahweh’s, with its fullness;the world, and those who dwell in it</span>.<br/>
               			2. For he has founded it on the seas,and established it on the floods.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">Who may ascend to Yahweh’s hill?Who may stand in his holy place</span>?<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">He who has clean hands and a pure heart;who has not lifted up his soul to falsehood,and
                  has not sworn deceitfully</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy righteousness praise color">He shall receive a blessing from Yahweh,righteousness from the God of his salvation</span>.<br/>
               			6. This is the generation of those who seek Him,who seek your face—even Jacob. 
               			<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy righteousness color">Lift up your heads, you gates!Be lifted up, you everlasting doors,and the King of
                  glory will come in</span>.<br/>
               			8. Who is the King of glory?<span class="joy praise violence color">Yahweh strong and mighty,Yahweh mighty in battle</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy righteousness color">Lift up your heads, you gates;yes, lift them up, you everlasting doors,and the King
                  of glory will come in</span>.<br/>
               			10. Who is this King of glory?<span class="joy praise color">Yahweh of Armies is the King of glory</span>!
               			
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 25</h2>
            <p>
               			1. To you, Yahweh, <span class="joy praise color">I lift up my soul</span>.<br/>
               			2. My God, <span class="contentment praise anxiety color">I have trusted in you</span>. <span class="fear anxiety color">Don’t let me be shamed</span>. <span class="fear fear violence color">Don’t let my enemies triumph over me</span>.<br/>
               			3. Yes, <span class="joy praise righteousness color">no one who waits for you will be shamed</span>. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">They will be shamed who deal treacherously without cause</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="fear pleading color">Show me your ways, Yahweh. Teach me your paths</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="fear pleading color">Guide me in your truth, and teach me</span>,For <span class="joy praise color">you are the God of my salvation</span>,<span class="fear anxiety color">I wait for you</span> all day long.<br/>
               			6. Yahweh, <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">remember your tender mercies and your loving kindness</span>,for they are from old times.<br/>
               			7. <span class="fear petitioning color">Don’t remember the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions. Remember me according
                  to your loving kindness</span>,for <span class="fear praise color">your goodness’ sake</span>, Yahweh.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise color">Good and upright</span> is Yahweh,therefore <span class="joy praise righteousness color">he will instruct sinners in the way</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">He will guide the humble in justice. He will teach the humble his way</span>.<br/>
               			10. All the paths of Yahweh are <span class="joy praise color">loving kindness and truth</span> to such as <span class="joy praise righteousness color">keep his covenant and his testimonies</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear praise pleading color">For your name’s sake</span>, Yahweh,<span class="fear petitioning color">pardon my iniquity</span>, for it is great.<br/>
               			12. What man is he who fears Yahweh?<span class="contentment righteousness color">He shall instruct him in the way that he shall choose</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">His soul will dwell at ease. His offspring wi ll inherit the land</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">The friendship of Yahweh is with those who fear him. He will show them his covenant</span>.<br/>
               			15. My eyes are ever on Yahweh,for <span class="joy praise color">he will pluck my feet out of the net</span>.<br/>
               			16. Turn to me, and <span class="fear pleading color">have mercy on me</span>,for <span class="fear anxiety color">I am desolate and afflicted</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="fear fear color">The troubles of my heart are enlarged</span>. Oh <span class="fear pleading color">bring me out of my distresses</span>.<br/>
               			18. <span class="fear pleading color">Consider my affliction and my travail. Forgive all my sins</span>.<br/>
               			19. <span class="fear petitioning color">Consider my enemies</span>, for they are many. <span class="fear fear violence color">They hate me with cruel hatred</span>.<br/>
               			20. <span class="fear pleading color">Oh keep my soul, and deliver me. Let me not be disappointed</span>, <span class="fear petitioning praise color">for I take refuge in you</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="fear petitioning righteousness color">Let integrity and uprightness preserve me,for I wait for you</span>.<br/>
               			22. <span class="fear petitioning color">Redeem Israel</span>, God,out of all his troubles.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 26</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment petitioning righteousness color">Judge me</span>, Yahweh, for <span class="contentment righteousness color">I have walked in my integrity. I have trusted also in Yahweh without wavering</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="contentment petitioning righteousness color">Examine me, Yahweh, and prove me. Try my heart and my mind</span>.<br/>
               			3. For your <span class="joy praise color">loving kindness</span> is before my eyes. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">I have walked in your truth</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment righteousness color">I have not sat with deceitful men,neither will I go in with hypocrites</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger righteousness color">I hate the assembly of evildoers,and will not sit with the wicked</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">I will wash my hands in innocence,so I will go about your altar</span>, Yahweh;<br/>
               			7. that I may <span class="joy praise color">make the voice of thanksgiving to be heard,and tell of all your wondrous deeds</span>.<br/>
               			8. Yahweh, <span class="joy praise color">I love the habitation of your house</span>,the place where your glory dwells.<br/>
               			9. <span class="fear petitioning color">Don’t gather my soul with sinners,nor my life with bloodthirsty men</span>;<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger righteousness color">in whose hands is wickedness,their right hand is full of bribes</span>.<br/>
               			11. But as for me, <span class="joy righteousness color">I will walk in my integrity</span>. <span class="fear pleading color">Redeem me, and be merciful to me</span>.<br/>
               			12. My foot stands in an even place. In the congregations <span class="joy praise color">I will bless</span> Yahweh.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 27</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Yahweh is <span class="joy praise color">my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear?Yahweh is the strength of my life. Of
                  whom shall I be afraid?</span><br/>
               			2. <span class="fear anxiety violence color">When evildoers came at me to eat up my flesh</span>,even my adversaries and my foes, <span class="joy righteousness violence color">they stumbled and fell</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy righteousness color">Though an army should encamp against me,my heart shall not fear. Though war should
                  rise against me,even then I will be confident</span>.<br/>
               			4. One thing I have asked of Yahweh, that I will seek after:<span class="joy petitioning color">that I may dwell in Yahweh’s house all the days of my life,to see Yahweh’s beauty,and
                  to inquire in his temple</span>.<br/>
               			5. For in the day of trouble, <span class="joy righteousness color">he will keep me secretly in his pavilion. In the secret place of his tabernacle, he
                  will hide me. He will lift me up on a rock</span>.<br/>
               			6. Now my head will be lifted up above my enemies around me;<span class="joy praise color">I will offer sacrifices of joy in his tent. I will sing, yes, I will sing praises
                  to Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			7. Hear, Yahweh, when I cry with my voice. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Have mercy also on me, and answer me</span>.<br/>
               			8. When you said, “Seek my face,”my heart said to you, “<span class="joy righteousness color">I will seek your face</span>, Yahweh.”<br/>
               			9. <span class="fear anxiety color">Don’t hide your face from me. Don’t put your servant away in anger</span>. <span class="fear praise color">You have been my help</span>. <span class="fear pleading color">Don’t abandon me,neither forsake me, God of my salvation</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="fear anxiety color">When my father and my mother forsake me</span>,then <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh will take me up</span>.<br/>
               			11. Teach me your way, Yahweh. <span class="fear petitioning righteousness color">Lead me in a straight path, because of my enemies</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="fear petitioning color">Don’t deliver me over to the desire of my adversaries</span>,for <span class="fear fear color">false witnesses have risen up against me,such as breathe out cruelty</span>.<br/>
               			13. I am still confident of this:<span class="joy praise color">I will see the goodness of Yahweh</span> in the land of the living.<br/>
               			14. Wait for Yahweh. <span class="joy righteousness color">Be strong, and let your heart take courage</span>. Yes, wait for Yahweh.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 28</h2>
            <p>
               			1. To you, Yahweh, I call. <span class="fear praise color">My rock</span>, <span class="fear pleading color">don’t be deaf to me</span>;lest, if you are silent to me,<span class="fear fear color">I would become like those who go down into the pit</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear pleading color">Hear the voice of my petitions</span>, when I cry to you,when I lift up my hands toward your Most Holy Place.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear pleading color">Don’t draw me away with the wicked</span>,with the <span class="fear fear color">workers of iniquity who speak peace with their neighbors,but mischief is in their
                  hearts</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Give them according to their work, and according to the wickedness of their doings.
                  Give them according to the operation of their hands. Bring back on them what they
                  deserve</span>.<br/>
               			5. Because <span class="anger righteousness color">they don’t respect the works of Yahweh,nor the operation of his hands</span>,<span class="anger violence righteousness color">he will break them down and not build them up</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed be Yahweh</span>,because he has heard the voice of my petitions.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is my strength and my shield</span>. <span class="joy righteousness color">My heart has trusted in him, and I am helped</span>. <span class="joy praise color">Therefore my heart greatly rejoices. With my song I will thank him</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is their strength. He is a stronghold of salvation to his anointed</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy petitioning righteousness color">Save your people,and bless your inheritance. Be their shepherd also,and bear them
                  up forever</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 29</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy righteousness color">Ascribe to Yahweh, you sons of the mighty,ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy righteousness color">Ascribe to Yahweh the glory due to his name. Worship Yahweh in holy array</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh’s voice is on the waters</span>. The God of <span class="joy praise color">glory</span> thunders, even Yahweh on many waters.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh’s voice is powerful. Yahweh’s voice is full of majesty</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise violence color">Yahweh’s voice breaks the cedars. Yes, Yahweh breaks in pieces the cedars of Lebanon</span>.<br/>
               			6. He makes them also to skip like a calf;Lebanon and Sirion like a young, wild ox.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise violence color">Yahweh’s voice strikes with flashes of lightning</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise violence color">Yahweh’s voice shakes the wilderness. Yahweh shakes the wilderness of Kadesh</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise violence color">Yahweh’s voice makes the deer calve,and strips the forests bare</span>. In his temple everything says, “<span class="joy praise color">Glory</span>!”<br/>
               			10. Yahweh sat enthroned at the Flood. Yes, <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh sits as King forever</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh will give strength to his people. Yahweh will bless his people with peace</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 30</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">I will extol you</span>, Yahweh, for <span class="joy praise righteousness color">you have raised me up,and have not made my foes to rejoice over me</span>.<br/>
               			2. Yahweh my God, <span class="joy praise color">I cried to you,and you have healed me</span>.<br/>
               			3. Yahweh, <span class="joy praise color">you have brought up my soul from Sheol</span>. <span class="joy praise anxiety color">You have kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise color">Sing praise</span> to Yahweh, you saints of his. <span class="joy praise color">Give thanks</span> to his holy name.<br/>
               			5. For <span class="joy praise anxiety color">his anger is but for a moment. His favor is for a lifetime</span>. Weeping may stay for the night,but joy comes in the morning.<br/>
               			6. As for me, I said in my prosperity,“<span class="joy righteousness color">I shall never be moved</span>.”<br/>
               			7. You, Yahweh, <span class="joy praise color">when you favored me, made my mountain stand strong</span>;but <span class="fear anxiety color">when you hid your face, I was troubled</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="sorrow pleading color">I cried to you, Yahweh. I made supplication to the Lord</span>:<br/>
               			9. “<span class="fear pleading color">What profit is there in my destruction, if I go down to the pit?Shall the dust praise
                  you?Shall it declare your truth</span>?<br/>
               			10. <span class="fear pleading color">Hear</span>, Yahweh, and <span class="fear pleading color">have mercy on me</span>. Yahweh, <span class="fear pleading color">be my helper</span>.”<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise color">You have turned my mourning into dancing for me. You have removed my sackcloth, and
                  clothed me with gladness</span>,<br/>
               			12. to the end that <span class="joy praise color">my heart may sing praise to you</span>, and not be silent. Yahweh my God, <span class="joy praise color">I will give thanks to you forever</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 31</h2>
            <p>
               			1. In you, Yahweh, I take refuge. <span class="fear petitioning color">Let me never be disappointed. Deliver me in your righteousness</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear petitioning color">Bow down your ear to me. Deliver me speedily. Be to me a strong rock,a house of defense
                  to save me</span>.<br/>
               			3. For <span class="fear praise color">you are my rock and my fortress</span>,therefore for your name’s sake <span class="fear pleading color">lead me and guide me</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="fear petitioning color">Pluck me out of the net that they have laid secretly for me</span>,for you are my stronghold.<br/>
               			5. <span class="fear righteousness color">Into your hand I commend my spirit</span>. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">You redeem me</span>, Yahweh, God of truth.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger righteousness color">I hate those who regard lying vanities</span>,but <span class="contentment righteousness color">I trust in Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise color">I will be glad and rejoice in your loving kindness</span>,for <span class="fear praise anxiety color">you have seen my affliction. You have known my soul in adversities</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise color">You have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy. You have set my feet in a large
                  place</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Have mercy on me, Yahweh, for I am in distress</span>. My eye, my soul, and my body <span class="sorrow fear color">waste away with grief</span>.<br/>
               			10. For <span class="sorrow fear color">my life is spent with sorrow,my years with sighing. My strength fails because of my
                  iniquity. My bones are wasted away</span>.<br/>
               			11. Because of all my adversaries <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I have become utterly contemptible to my neighbors,a horror to my acquaintances. Those
                  who saw me on the street fled from me</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I am forgotten from their hearts like a dead man. I am like broken pottery</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="fear fear color">For I have heard the slander of many, terror on every side,while they conspire together
                  against me,</span><span class="fear fear violence color">they plot to take away my life</span>.<br/>
               			14. But <span class="contentment righteousness color">I trust in you</span>, Yahweh. I said, “<span class="joy praise color">You are my God</span>.”<br/>
               			15. <span class="fear petitioning color">My times are in your hand. Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from those
                  who persecute me</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="fear petitioning color">Make your face to shine on your servant. Save me in your loving kindness</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="fear petitioning color">Let me not be disappointed</span>, Yahweh, for I have called on you. <span class="anger righteousness color">Let the wicked be disappointed. Let them be silent in Sheol</span>.<br/>
               			18. <span class="anger petitioning color">Let the lying lips be mute</span>,which <span class="anger righteousness color">speak against the righteous insolently, with pride and contempt</span>.<br/>
               			19. Oh <span class="joy praise color">how great is your goodness</span>,which <span class="joy praise righteousness color">you have laid up for those who fear you,which you have worked for those who take refuge
                  in you</span>,before the sons of men!<br/>
               			20. In the shelter of your presence <span class="joy petitioning praise color">you will hide them from the plotting of man. You will keep them secretly in a dwelling
                  away from the strife of tongues</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="joy praise color">Praise be to Yahweh,for he has shown me his marvelous loving kindness in a strong
                  city.</span><br/>
               			22. As for me, I said in my haste, “<span class="fear anxiety color">I am cut off from before your eyes</span>.”Nevertheless <span class="joy praise color">you heard the voice of my petitions when I cried to you</span>.<br/>
               			23. Oh <span class="joy praise color">love</span> Yahweh, all you his saints!Yahweh <span class="joy praise righteousness color">preserves the faithful,and fully recompenses him who behaves arrogantly</span>.<br/>
               			24. <span class="joy righteousness color">Be strong, and let your heart take courage</span>,all you who hope in Yahweh.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 32</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy righteousness color">Blessed is he whose disobedience is forgiven,whose sin is covered</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy righteousness color">Blessed is the man to whom Yahweh doesn’t impute iniquity,in whose spirit there is
                  no deceit</span>.<br/>
               			3. When I kept silence, <span class="sorrow anxiety color">my bones wasted away</span> through my groaning all day long.<br/>
               			4. For day and night <span class="sorrow anxiety color">your hand was heavy on me. My strength was sapped in the heat of summer</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			5. <span class="fear righteousness color">I acknowledged my sin to you. I didn’t hide my iniquity</span>. I said, <span class="fear righteousness color">I will confess my transgressions</span> to Yahweh,and <span class="joy praise righteousness color">you forgave the iniquity of my sin</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			6. For this, <span class="joy righteousness color">let everyone who is godly pray to you</span> in a time when you may be found. Surely when the great waters overflow, <span class="joy praise righteousness color">they shall not reach to him</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise color">You are my hiding place. You will preserve me from trouble. You will surround me with
                  songs of deliverance</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment righteousness color">I will instruct you and teach you in the way which you shall go. I will counsel you
                  with my eye on you.</span><br/>
               			9. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Don’t be like the horse, or like the mule, which have no understanding,who are controlled
                  by bit and bridle, or else they will not come near to you</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy righteousness color">Many sorrows come to the wicked,but loving kindness shall surround him who trusts
                  in Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise color">Be glad in Yahweh, and rejoice</span>, you righteous!S<span class="joy praise color">hout for joy</span>, <span class="joy righteousness color">all you who are upright in heart</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 33</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Rejoice in Yahweh</span>, you righteous!<span class="joy righteousness color">Praise is fitting for the upright</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">Give thanks</span> to Yahweh with the lyre. <span class="joy praise color">Sing praises</span> to him with the harp of ten strings.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">Sing to him a new song. Play skillfully with a shout of joy</span>!<br/>
               			4. For <span class="joy righteousness praise color">Yahweh’s word is right. All his work is done in faithfulness</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy righteousness praise color">He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the loving kindness of Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">By Yahweh’s word, the heavens were made</span>;<span class="joy praise violence color">all their army by the breath of his mouth</span>.<br/>
               			7. He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap. He lays up the deeps in storehouses.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Let all the earth fear Yahweh. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of
                  him</span>.<br/>
               			9. For <span class="joy praise righteousness color">he spoke, and it was done. He commanded, and it stood firm</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="fear praise righteousness color">Yahweh brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He makes the thoughts of the
                  peoples to be of no effect</span>.<br/>
               			11. The counsel of Yahweh <span class="joy praise color">stands fast forever</span>,the thoughts of his heart to all generations.<br/>
               			12. <span class="joy righteousness color">Blessed is the nation whose God is Yahweh,the people whom he has chosen for his own
                  inheritance</span>.<br/>
               			13. Yahweh looks from heaven. He sees all the sons of men.<br/>
               			14. From the place of his habitation he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth,<br/>
               			15. he who <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">fashions all of their hearts;and he considers all of their works</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="fear anxiety color">There is no king saved by the multitude of an army. A mighty man is not delivered
                  by great strength</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="fear anxiety color">A horse is a vain thing for safety,neither does he deliver any by his great power</span>.<br/>
               			18. Behold, <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Yahweh’s eye is on those who fear him,on those who hope in his loving kindness</span>;<br/>
               			19. to <span class="joy praise color">deliver their soul from death,to keep them alive in famine</span>.<br/>
               			20. Our soul has waited for Yahweh. <span class="joy praise color">He is our help and our shield</span>.<br/>
               			21. For <span class="joy praise color">our heart rejoices in him</span>,because <span class="joy righteousness color">we have trusted in his holy name</span>.<br/>
               			22. <span class="joy petitioning color">Let your loving kindness be on us</span>, Yahweh,since <span class="joy righteousness color">we have hoped in you</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 34</h2>
            <p>
               			1.  <span class="joy praise color">I will bless Yahweh at all times. His praise will always be in my mouth</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise boasting color">My soul shall boast in Yahweh. The humble shall hear of it, and be glad</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy petitioning praise color">Oh magnify Yahweh with me. Let’s exalt his name together</span>.<br/>
               			4. I sought Yahweh, and <span class="joy praise color">he answered me,and delivered me from all my fears</span>.<br/>
               			5. They looked to him, and were radiant. <span class="joy righteousness color">Their faces shall never be covered with shame</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="sorrow fear color">This poor man cried</span>, and <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh heard him,and saved him out of all his troubles</span>.<br/>
               			7. Yahweh’s angel <span class="joy praise righteousness color">encamps around those who fear him,and delivers them</span>.<br/>
               			8. Oh taste and see that <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is good</span>. <span class="joy righteousness color">Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him</span>.<br/>
               			9. Oh <span class="joy petitioning righteousness color">fear Yahweh</span>, you his saints,for <span class="joy praise color">there is no lack with those who fear him</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy righteousness color">The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger,but those who seek Yahweh shall not lack
                  any good thing</span>.<br/>
               			11. Come, you children, listen to me. I will teach you the fear of Yahweh.<br/>
               			12. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Who is someone who desires life,and loves many days, that he may see good</span>?<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger righteousness color">Keep your tongue from evil,and your lips from speaking lies</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger righteousness color">Depart from evil</span>, and <span class="joy righteousness color">do good. Seek peace, and pursue it</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Yahweh’s eyes are toward the righteous. His ears listen to their cry</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">Yahweh’s face is against those who do evil,to cut off their memory from the earth</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="fear fear color">The righteous cry</span>, and <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh hears,and delivers them out of all their troubles</span>.<br/>
               			18. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is near to those who have a broken heart,and saves those who have a crushed
                  spirit</span>.<br/>
               			19. <span class="sorrow anxiety righteousness color">Many are the afflictions of the righteous</span>,but <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh delivers him out of them all</span>.<br/>
               			20. <span class="joy praise color">He protects all of his bones. Not one of them is broken</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">Evil shall kill the wicked. Those who hate the righteous shall be condemned</span>.<br/>
               			22. Yahweh <span class="joy praise righteousness color">redeems the soul of his servants</span>. <span class="joy righteousness color">None of those who take refuge in him shall be condemned</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 35</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear petitioning color">Contend, Yahweh, with those who contend with me</span>. <span class="fear petitioning violence color">Fight against those who fight against me</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear petitioning righteousness color">Take hold of shield and buckler,and stand up for my help</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger violence petitioning color">Brandish the spear and block those who pursue me</span>. <span class="fear anxiety petitioning color">Tell my soul, “I am your salvation.”</span><br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness color">Let those who seek after my soul be disappointed and brought to dishonor. Let those
                  who plot my ruin be turned back and confounded</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger righteousness color">Let them be as chaff before the wind,Yahweh’s angel driving them on</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger righteousness color">Let their way be dark and slippery,Yahweh’s angel pursuing them</span>.<br/>
               			7. For without cause <span class="fear violence color">they have hidden their net in a pit for me. Without cause they have dug a pit for
                  my soul</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger violence color">Let destruction come on him unawares</span>. <span class="anger violence color">Let his net that he has hidden catch himself</span>.<span class="anger violence color"> Let him fall into that destruction</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy righteousness color">My soul shall be joyful in Yahweh. It shall rejoice in his salvation</span>.<br/>
               			10. All my bones shall say, “Yahweh, <span class="joy praise color">who is like you</span>,<span class="fear praise color">who delivers the poor from him who is too strong for him</span>;yes, <span class="fear praise violence color">the poor and the needy from him who robs him</span>?”<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear anxiety color">Unrighteous witnesses rise up</span>. <span class="fear anxiety color">They ask me about things that I don’t know about</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="anger fear color">They reward me evil for good,to the bereaving of my soul</span>.<br/>
               			13. But as for me, <span class="contentment righteousness color">when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth. I afflicted my soul with fasting.
                  My prayer returned into my own bosom</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="contentment righteousness color">I behaved myself as though it had been my friend or my brother</span>. <span class="sorrow righteousness color">I bowed down mourning, as one who mourns his mother</span>.<br/>
               			15. But <span class="anger boasting color">in my adversity, they rejoiced</span>, and gathered themselves together. <span class="fear violence color">The attackers gathered themselves together against me</span>, and I didn’t know it. <span class="anger violence color">They tore at me, and didn’t cease</span>.<br/>
               			16. Like <span class="anger anxiety color">the profane mockers in feasts</span>,<span class="anger violence color">they gnashed their teeth at me</span>.<br/>
               			17. Lord, <span class="fear pleading color">how long will you look on?Rescue my soul from their destruction,my precious life from
                  the lions</span>.<br/>
               			18. <span class="fear praise pleading color">I will give you thanks in the great assembly. I will praise you among many people</span>.<br/>
               			19. <span class="fear pleading color">Don’t let those who are my enemies wrongfully rejoice over me;neither let those who
                  hate me without a cause wink their eyes</span>.<br/>
               			20. For <span class="anger violence color">they don’t speak peace</span>,but they <span class="anger righteousness color">devise deceitful words against those who are quiet in the land</span>.<br/>
               			21. Yes, <span class="anger fear color">they opened their mouth wide against me</span>. They said, “Aha! Aha! Our eye has seen it!”<br/>
               			22. You have seen it, Yahweh. <span class="fear pleading color">Don’t keep silent. Lord, don’t be far from me</span>.<br/>
               			23. <span class="fear pleading color">Wake up! Rise up to defend me, my God!My Lord, contend for me</span>!<br/>
               			24. <span class="fear petitioning color">Vindicate me</span>, Yahweh my God, according to your righteousness. <span class="fear petitioning color">Don’t let them gloat over me</span>.<br/>
               			25. <span class="fear petitioning color">Don’t let them say</span> in their heart, “Aha! That’s the way we want it!”<span class="fear petitioning color">Don’t let them say</span>, “We have swallowed him up!”<br/>
               			26. <span class="anger righteousness color">Let them be disappointed and confounded together who rejoice at my calamity</span>. <span class="anger righteousness color">Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify themselves against me</span>.<br/>
               			27. <span class="joy righteousness color">Let them shout for joy and be glad</span>, who favor my righteous cause. Yes, let them say continually, “<span class="joy praise righteousness color">Yahweh be magnified,who has pleasure in the prosperity of his servant!</span>”<br/>
               			28. <span class="joy praise color">My tongue shall talk about your righteousness and about your praise all day long</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 36</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="anger righteousness color">A revelation is within my heart about the disobedience of the wicked:“There is no
                  fear of God before his eyes</span>.”<br/>
               			2. For <span class="anger righteousness boasting color">he flatters himself</span> in his own eyes,<span class="anger righteousness color">too much to detect and hate his sin</span>.<br/>
               			3. The words of his mouth are <span class="anger righteousness color">iniquity and deceit</span>. <span class="anger righteousness color">He has ceased to be wise and to do good</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness color">He plots iniquity on his bed. He sets himself in a way that is not good. He doesn’t
                  abhor evil</span>.<br/>
               			5. Your <span class="joy praise color">loving kindness</span>, Yahweh, is in the heavens. <span class="joy praise color">Your faithfulness reaches to the skies</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">Your righteousness is like the mountains of God. Your judgments are like a great deep.
                  Yahweh, you preserve man and animal</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise color">How precious is your loving kindness</span>, God!<span class="fear praise color">The children of men take refuge under the shadow of your wings</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise color">They shall be abundantly satisfied with the abundance of your house</span>. <span class="joy righteousness praise color">You will make them drink of the river of your pleasures</span>.<br/>
               			9. For with you is the spring of life. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">In your light we will see light</span>.<br/>
               			10. Oh continue your <span class="joy praise color">loving kindness</span> to those who know you,<span class="joy praise righteousness color">your righteousness to the upright in heart</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear petitioning righteousness color">Don’t let the foot of pride come against me. Don’t let the hand of the wicked drive
                  me away</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="contentment righteousness color">There the workers of iniquity are fallen</span>. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">They are thrust down, and shall not be able to rise</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 37</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Don’t fret because of evildoers,neither be envious against those who work unrighteousness</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">For they shall soon be cut down like the grass,and wither like the green herb</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy righteousness petitioning color">Trust in Yahweh, and do good. Dwell in the land, and enjoy safe pasture</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy righteousness color">Also delight yourself in Yahweh,and he will give you the desires of your heart</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment righteousness praise color">Commit your way to Yahweh. Trust also in him, and he will do this</span>:<br/>
               			6. he will make your righteousness go out as the light,and your justice as the noon day
               sun.<br/>
               			7. <span class="contentment righteousness praise color">Rest in Yahweh, and wait patiently for him</span>. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Don’t fret because of him who prospers in his way,because of the man who makes wicked
                  plots happen</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Cease from anger, and forsake wrath. Don’t fret, it leads only to evildoing</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger righteousness color">For evildoers shall be cut off</span>,but <span class="joy righteousness color">those who wait for Yahweh shall inherit the land</span>.<br/>
               			10. For yet a little while, and <span class="joy righteousness violence color">the wicked will be no more</span>. Yes, though you look for his place, he isn’t there.<br/>
               			11. But <span class="joy righteousness color">the humble shall inherit the land,and shall delight themselves in the abundance of
                  peace</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="anger violence color">The wicked plots against the just,and gnashes at him with his teeth</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="joy righteousness color">The Lord will laugh at him,for he sees that his day is coming</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger violence color">The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow,to cast down the poor
                  and needy,to kill those who are upright on the path</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="anger violence righteousness color">Their sword shall enter into their own heart. Their bows shall be broken</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Better is a little that the righteous has,than the abundance of many wicked</span>.<br/>
               			17. For <span class="anger violence righteousness color">the arms of the wicked shall be broken</span>,but <span class="joy righteousness praise color">Yahweh upholds the righteous</span>.<br/>
               			18. Yahweh knows the days of the perfect. <span class="joy righteousness color">Their inheritance shall be forever</span>.<br/>
               			19. <span class="anger righteousness color">They shall not be disappointed in the time of evil. In the days of famine they shall
                  be satisfied</span>.<br/>
               			20. But <span class="anger violence righteousness color">the wicked shall perish</span>. The enemies of Yahweh shall be like the beauty of the fields. <span class="anger violence righteousness color">They will vanish—vanish like smoke</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="anger righteousness color">The wicked borrow, and don’t pay back</span>,but <span class="joy righteousness color">the righteous give generously</span>.<br/>
               			22. <span class="joy righteousness color">For such as are blessed by him shall inherit the land</span>. <span class="anger righteousness color">Those who are cursed by him shall be cut off</span>.<br/>
               			23. A man’s goings are established by Yahweh. <span class="joy praise color">He delights in his way</span>.<br/>
               			24. <span class="joy praise color">Though he stumble, he shall not fall,for Yahweh holds him up with his hand</span>.<br/>
               			25. I have been young, and now am old,yet <span class="joy praise color">I have not seen the righteous forsaken,nor his children begging for bread</span>.<br/>
               			26. <span class="joy praise color">All day long he deals graciously, and lends. His offspring is blessed</span>.<br/>
               			27. <span class="joy righteousness color">Depart from evil, and do good. Live securely forever</span>.<br/>
               			28. For Yahweh <span class="joy praise color">loves justice,and doesn’t forsake his saints</span>. They are preserved forever,but <span class="anger righteousness color">the children of the wicked shall be cut off</span>.<br/>
               			29. <span class="joy righteousness color">The righteous shall inherit the land,and live in it forever</span>.<br/>
               			30. <span class="joy righteousness color">The mouth of the righteous talks of wisdom. His tongue speaks justice</span>.<br/>
               			31. <span class="joy righteousness color">The law of his God is in his heart. None of his steps shall slide</span>.<br/>
               			32. The wicked watches the righteous,and <span class="anger violence color">seeks to kill him</span>.<br/>
               			33. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh will not leave him in his hand,nor condemn him when he is judged</span>.<br/>
               			34. Wait for Yahweh, and <span class="contentment righteousness color">keep his way,and he will exalt you to inherit the land</span>. <span class="anger righteousness color">When the wicked are cut off, you shall see it</span>.<br/>
               			35. <span class="anger righteousness color">I have seen the wicked in great power</span>,spreading himself like a green tree in its native soil.<br/>
               			36. But he passed away, and behold, <span class="contentment righteousness color">he was not</span>. Yes, I sought him, but he could not be found.<br/>
               			37. Mark the perfect man, and see the upright,for <span class="joy righteousness color">there is a future for the man of peace</span>.<br/>
               			38. As for transgressors, <span class="anger righteousness violence color">they shall be destroyed together</span>. <span class="anger righteousness color">The future of the wicked shall be cut off</span>.<br/>
               			39. But <span class="joy righteousness praise color">the salvation of the righteous is from Yahweh. He is their stronghold in the time
                  of trouble</span>.<br/>
               			40. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Yahweh helps them, and rescues them. He rescues them from the wicked, and saves them,because
                  they have taken refuge in him</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 38</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Yahweh, <span class="fear fear color">don’t rebuke me in your wrath,neither chasten me in your hot displeasure</span>.<br/>
               			2. For <span class="fear violence color">your arrows have pierced me,your hand presses hard on me</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear anxiety color">There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation,neither is there any
                  health in my bones because of my sin</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">For my iniquities have gone over my head. As a heavy burden, they are too heavy for
                  me</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">My wounds are loathsome and corrupt,because of my foolishness</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I am pained and bowed down greatly. I go mourning all day long</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">For my waist is filled with burning. There is no soundness in my flesh</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="sorrow anxiety violence color">I am faint and severely bruised</span>. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I have groaned by reason of the anguish of my heart</span>.<br/>
               			9. Lord, <span class="sorrow pleading color">all my desire is before you. My groaning is not hidden from you</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">My heart throbs. My strength fails me. As for the light of my eyes, it has also left
                  me</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my plague. My kinsmen stand far away</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="anger violence color">They also who seek after my life lay snares</span>. <span class="anger fear color">Those who seek my hurt speak mischievous things,and meditate deceits all day long</span>.<br/>
               			13. But I, as a deaf man, don’t hear. I am as a mute man who doesn’t open his mouth.<br/>
               			14. Yes, I am as a man who doesn’t hear,in whose mouth are no reproofs.<br/>
               			15. <span class="joy righteousness praise color">For in you, Yahweh, do I hope. You will answer, Lord my God</span>.<br/>
               			16. For I said, “<span class="fear pleading color">Don’t let them gloat over me,or exalt themselves over me when my foot slips</span>.”<br/>
               			17. For I am ready to fall. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">My pain is continually before me</span>.<br/>
               			18. For <span class="sorrow righteousness color">I will declare my iniquity. I will be sorry for my sin</span>.<br/>
               			19. But <span class="fear fear color">my enemies are vigorous and many. Those who hate me without reason are numerous</span>.<br/>
               			20. <span class="anger righteousness color">They who render evil for good are also adversaries to me,because I follow what is
                  good</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="fear petitioning color">Don’t forsake me, Yahweh. My God, don’t be far from me</span>.<br/>
               			22. <span class="fear pleading color">Hurry to help me</span>,Lord, my salvation.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 39</h2>
            <p>
               			1. I said, “<span class="fear righteousness color">I will watch my ways, so that I don’t sin with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with
                  a bridle while the wicked is before me</span>.”<br/>
               			2. I was mute with silence. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I held my peace, even from good</span>. My sorrow was stirred.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear anxiety color">My heart was hot within me</span>. While I meditated, the fire burned. I spoke with my tongue:<br/>
               			4. “Yahweh, <span class="fear pleading color">show me my end,what is the measure of my days. Let me know how frail I am</span>.<br/>
               			5. Behold, <span class="fear anxiety color">you have made my days hand widths. My lifetime is as nothing before you</span>. Surely every man stands as a breath.”
               			<br/>
               			6. “Surely every man walks like a shadow. Surely they busy themselves in vain. He heaps
               up, and doesn’t know who shall gather.<br/>
               			7. Now, Lord, what do I wait for?<span class="fear praise color">My hope is in you</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="fear petitioning color">Deliver me from all my transgressions. Don’t make me the reproach of the foolish</span>.<br/>
               			9. I was mute. I didn’t open my mouth,because you did it.<br/>
               			10. <span class="fear petitioning violence color">Remove your scourge away from me. I am overcome by the blow of your hand</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear righteousness color">When you rebuke and correct man for iniquity,you consume his wealth like a moth</span>. Surely every man is but a breath.”
               			<br/>
               			12. “<span class="fear petitioning color">Hear my prayer, Yahweh, and give ear to my cry. Don’t be silent at my tears</span>. For I am a stranger with you,a foreigner, as all my fathers were.<br/>
               			13. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Oh spare me, that I may recover strength,before I go away, and exist no more</span>.”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 40</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment boasting color">I waited patiently for Yahweh</span>. He turned to me, and heard my cry.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear praise color">He brought me up also out of a horrible pit,out of the miry clay. He set my feet on
                  a rock,and gave me a firm place to stand</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">He has put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God</span>. <span class="joy righteousness praise color">Many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy righteousness color">Blessed is the man who makes Yahweh his trust,and doesn’t respect the proud, nor such
                  as turn away to lies</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">Many, Yahweh, my God, are the wonderful works which you have done,and your thoughts
                  which are toward us</span>. They can’t be declared back to you. If I would declare and speak of them, <span class="joy praise color">they are more than can be counted</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">Sacrifice and offering you didn’t desire</span>. You have opened my ears. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">You have not required burnt offering and sin offering</span>.<br/>
               			7. Then I said, “Behold, I have come. It is written about me in the book in the scroll.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy righteousness color">I delight to do your will, my God. Yes, your law is within my heart</span>.”<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy righteousness color">I have proclaimed glad news of righteousness in the great assembly</span>. Behold, I will not seal my lips, Yahweh, you know.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy righteousness color">I have not hidden your righteousness within my heart. I have declared your faithfulness
                  and your salvation. I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from
                  the great assembly</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear pleading color">Don’t withhold your tender mercies from me</span>, Yahweh. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me</span>.<br/>
               			12. For <span class="fear fear color">innumerable evils have surrounded me. My iniquities have overtaken me</span>, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head. <span class="sorrow fear color">My heart has failed me</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="fear pleading color">Be pleased, Yahweh, to deliver me. Hurry to help me, Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger righteousness color">Let them be disappointed and confounded together who seek after my soul to destroy
                  it. Let them be turned backward and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="anger righteousness color">Let them be desolate by reason of their shame</span> that tell me, “Aha! Aha!”<br/>
               			16. <span class="joy righteousness color">Let all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you</span>. Let such as love your salvation say continually, “<span class="joy praise color">Let Yahweh be exalted</span>!”<br/>
               			17. But <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I am poor and needy</span>. <span class="fear petitioning color">May the Lord think about me</span>. <span class="fear praise color">You are my help and my deliverer</span>. <span class="fear petitioning color">Don’t delay</span>, my God.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 41</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy righteousness color">Blessed is he who considers the poor. Yahweh will deliver him in the day of evil</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy righteousness praise color">Yahweh will preserve him, and keep him alive. He shall be blessed on the earth,and
                  he will not surrender him to the will of his enemies</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear righteousness praise color">Yahweh will sustain him on his sickbed,and restore him from his bed of illness</span>.<br/>
               			4. I said, “<span class="sorrow pleading color">Yahweh, have mercy on me!Heal me, for I have sinned against you</span>.”<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger fear color">My enemies speak evil against me</span>:“<span class="anger violence color">When will he die, and his name perish</span>?”<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger righteousness color">If he comes to see me, he speaks falsehood. His heart gathers iniquity to itself.
                  When he goes abroad, he tells it</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger fear color">All who hate me whisper together against me. They imagine the worst for me</span>.<br/>
               			8. “An evil disease”, they say, “has afflicted him. Now that he lies he shall rise up
               no more.”<br/>
               			9. Yes, my own familiar friend, in whom I trusted,who ate bread with me,<span class="sorrow violence color">has lifted up his heel against me</span>.<br/>
               			10. But you, Yahweh, <span class="anger petitioning righteousness color">have mercy on me, and raise me up,that I may repay them</span>.<br/>
               			11. By this <span class="joy praise color">I know that you delight in me</span>,because <span class="joy righteousness color">my enemy doesn’t triumph over me</span>.<br/>
               			12. As for me, <span class="joy praise righteousness color">you uphold me in my integrity,and set me in your presence forever</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel,from everlasting and to everlasting!Amen and
                  amen</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 42</h2>
            <p>
               			1. As the deer pants for the water brooks,so <span class="contentment pleading color">my soul pants after you</span>, God.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear pleading color">My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God</span>?<br/>
               			3. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">My tears have been my food day and night</span>,while they continually ask me, “<span class="fear anxiety color">Where is your God</span>?”<br/>
               			4. These things I remember, and pour out my soul within me,<span class="sorrow praise righteousness color">how I used to go with the crowd, and led them to God’s house,with the voice of joy
                  and praise, a multitude keeping a holy day</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Why are you in despair, my soul?Why are you disturbed within me</span>?<span class="joy praise color">Hope in God</span>!For <span class="joy praise righteousness color">I shall still praise him for the saving help of his presence</span>.<br/>
               			6. My God, <span class="sorrow anxiety color">my soul is in despair within me</span>. Therefore I remember you from the land of the Jordan,the heights of Hermon, from
               the hill Mizar.<br/>
               			7. Deep calls to deep at the noise of your waterfalls. All your waves and your billows
               have swept over me.<br/>
               			8. Yahweh will command his <span class="joy praise color">loving kindness</span> in the daytime. In the night <span class="joy praise color">his song shall be with me</span>:<span class="joy righteousness color">a prayer to the God of my life</span>.<br/>
               			9. I will ask God, <span class="joy praise color">my rock</span>, “<span class="sorrow anxiety color">Why have you forgotten me?Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy</span>?”<br/>
               			10. <span class="fear anxiety violence color">As with a sword in my bones, my adversaries reproach me</span>,while they continually ask me, “<span class="fear anxiety color">Where is your God</span>?”<br/>
               			11. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Why are you in despair, my soul?Why are you disturbed within me</span>?<span class="joy praise color">Hope in God</span>! For <span class="joy praise righteousness color">I shall still praise him,the saving help of my countenance</span>, and my God.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 43</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="anger petitioning color">Vindicate me, God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation. Oh, deliver me from
                  deceitful and wicked men</span>.<br/>
               			2. For <span class="fear praise color">you are the God of my strength</span>. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Why have you rejected me?Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy</span>?<br/>
               			3. Oh, <span class="fear petitioning color">send out your light and your truth. Let them lead me. Let them bring me to your holy
                  hill,To your tents</span>.<br/>
               			4. Then <span class="joy righteousness color">I will go to the altar of God</span>,to God, <span class="joy praise color">my exceeding joy. I will praise you on the harp</span>, God, my God.<br/>
               			5. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Why are you in despair, my soul?Why are you disturbed within me</span>?<span class="joy praise color">Hope in God</span>!For <span class="joy righteousness color">I shall still praise him</span>:my Savior, my helper, and my God.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 44</h2>
            <p>
               			1. We have heard with our ears, God;our fathers have told us,<span class="joy praise color">what work you did</span> in their days,in the days of old.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise violence color">You drove out the nations with your hand</span>,but you planted them. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">You afflicted the peoples</span>,but you spread them abroad.<br/>
               			3. For <span class="contentment righteousness color">they didn’t get the land in possession by their own sword,neither did their own arm
                  save them</span>;but your right hand, and your arm, and the light of your face,because <span class="joy praise color">you were favorable to them</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise color">You are my King</span>, God. Command victories for Jacob!<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise violence color">Through you, will we push down our adversaries. Through your name, we will tread them
                  under who rise up against us</span>.<br/>
               			6. For I will not trust in my bow,neither shall my sword save me.<br/>
               			7. But <span class="joy praise color">you have saved us from our adversaries,and have shamed those who hate us</span>.<br/>
               			8. In God we have made our boast all day long,<span class="joy praise righteousness color">we will give thanks to your name forever</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger fear color">But now you rejected us, and brought us to dishonor,and don’t go out with our armies</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger fear color">You make us turn back from the adversary. Those who hate us take plunder for themselves</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="anger anxiety color">You have made us like sheep for food,and have scattered us among the nations</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="anger anxiety color">You sell your people for nothing,and have gained nothing from their sale</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger anxiety color">You make us a reproach to our neighbors,a scoffing and a derision to those who are
                  around us</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger fear color">You make us a byword among the nations,a shaking of the head among the peoples</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">All day long my dishonor is before me,and shame covers my face</span>,<br/>
               			16. At <span class="anger fear violence color">the taunt of one who reproaches and verbally abuses</span>,because of the enemy and the avenger.<br/>
               			17. All this has come on us,yet <span class="fear righteousness color">we haven’t forgotten you. We haven’t been false to your covenant</span>.<br/>
               			18. <span class="fear righteousness color">Our heart has not turned back,neither have our steps strayed from your path</span>,<br/>
               			19. Though <span class="fear violence color">you have crushed us in the haunt of jackals,and covered us with the shadow of death</span>.<br/>
               			20. If we have forgotten the name of our God,or spread out our hands to a strange god;<br/>
               			21. won’t God search this out?For <span class="fear righteousness color">he knows the secrets of the heart</span>.<br/>
               			22. Yes, <span class="anger violence righteousness color">for your sake we are killed all day long</span>. <span class="anger fear violence color">We are regarded as sheep for the slaughter</span>.<br/>
               			23. <span class="fear pleading color">Wake up!Why do you sleep, Lord?Arise!Don’t reject us forever</span>.<br/>
               			24. <span class="fear pleading color">Why do you hide your face,and forget our affliction and our oppression</span>?<br/>
               			25. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">For our soul is bowed down to the dust. Our body clings to the earth</span>.<br/>
               			26. <span class="fear petitioning color">Rise up to help us</span>. <span class="fear petitioning praise color">Redeem us for your loving kindness’ sake</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 45</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy righteousness color">My heart overflows with a noble theme. I recite my verses for the king. My tongue
                  is like the pen of a skillful writer</span>.<br/>
               			2. You are the <span class="joy praise color">most excellent</span> of the sons of men. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Grace has anointed your lips,therefore God has blessed you forever</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy violence color">Strap your sword on your thigh</span>, <span class="joy praise color">mighty one:your splendor and your majesty</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">In your majesty ride on victoriously on behalf of truth, humility, and righteousness.
                  Let your right hand display awesome deeds</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise violence color">Your arrows are sharp. The nations fall under you, with arrows in the heart of the
                  king’s enemies</span>.<br/>
               			6. Your throne, God, <span class="joy praise color">is forever and ever</span>. A scepter of <span class="joy praise color">equity</span> is the scepter of your kingdom.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise color">You have loved righteousness, and hated wickedness</span>. Therefore God, your God, has <span class="joy righteousness praise color">anointed you with the oil of gladness above your fellows</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise color">All your garments smell like myrrh, aloes, and cassia</span>. Out of ivory palaces stringed instruments have made you glad.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise color">Kings’ daughters are among your honorable women. At your right hand the queen stands
                  in gold</span> of Ophir.<br/>
               			10. Listen, daughter, consider, and turn your ear. <span class="joy petitioning color">Forget your own people, and also your father’s house</span>.<br/>
               			11. So the king will desire your beauty,honor him, for he is your lord.<br/>
               			12. The daughter of Tyre comes with a gift. <span class="joy praise color">The rich among the people entreat your favor</span>.<br/>
               			13. The princess inside is <span class="joy praise color">all glorious</span>. Her clothing is interwoven with gold.<br/>
               			14. She shall be led to the king in embroidered work. The virgins, her companions who
               follow her, shall be brought to you.<br/>
               			15. With gladness and rejoicing they shall be led. They shall enter into the king’s palace.<br/>
               			16. Your sons will take the place of your fathers. You shall make them princes in all
               the earth.<br/>
               			17. <span class="joy righteousness praise color">I will make your name to be remembered in all generations. Therefore the peoples shall
                  give you thanks forever and ever</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 46</h2>
            <p>
               
               			1. <span class="fear praise color">God is our refuge and strength,a very present help in trouble</span>.<br/>
               			2. Therefore <span class="contentment righteousness color">we won’t be afraid</span>, though the earth changes,though <span class="fear fear color">the mountains are shaken into the heart of the seas</span>;<br/>
               			3. though its <span class="fear fear color">waters roar and are troubled,though the mountains tremble with their swelling</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			4. There is a river, the streams of which <span class="joy righteousness color">make the city of God glad</span>,the <span class="joy praise color">holy place</span> of the tents of the Most High.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy righteousness color">God is within her</span>. She shall not be moved. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">God will help her</span> at dawn.<br/>
               			6. <span class="fear violence color">The nations raged</span>. The kingdoms were moved. <span class="anger violence righteousness color">He lifted his voice, and the earth melted</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy righteousness violence color">Yahweh of Armies is with us</span>. The God of Jacob is our <span class="joy praise color">refuge</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			8. Come, see Yahweh’s works,<span class="fear violence praise color">what desolations he has made in the earth</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger violence righteousness color">He makes wars cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow, and shatters the spear.
                  He burns the chariots in the fire</span>.<br/>
               			10. “Be still, and <span class="contentment righteousness color">know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the
                  earth</span>.”<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy righteousness violence color">Yahweh of Armies is with us</span>. The God of Jacob is our <span class="joy praise color">refuge</span>. 
               			
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 47</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Oh <span class="joy praise color">clap your hands</span>, all you nations. <span class="joy praise color">Shout to God with the voice of triumph</span>!<br/>
               			2. For Yahweh Most High is <span class="joy praise color">awesome</span>. He is a <span class="joy praise color">great King over all the earth</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise violence color">He subdues nations under us,and peoples under our feet</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">He chooses our inheritance for us,the glory of Jacob whom he loved</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			5. God has gone up with a shout,Yahweh with the sound of a trumpet.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">Sing praises to God, sing praises. Sing praises to our King, sing praises</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">For God is the King of all the earth</span>. <span class="joy praise color">Sing praises with understanding</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">God reigns over the nations. God sits on his holy throne</span>.<br/>
               			9. The princes of the peoples are gathered together,the people of the God of Abraham.
               For <span class="joy praise righteousness color">the shields of the earth belong to God. He is greatly exalted</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 48</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Great is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised</span>,in the city of our God, in his holy mountain.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">Beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth</span>,is Mount Zion, on the north sides,the city of the great King.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">God has shown himself in her citadels as a refuge</span>.<br/>
               			4. For, behold, the kings assembled themselves,they passed by together.<br/>
               			5. They saw it, then <span class="fear righteousness color">they were amazed. They were dismayed</span>. They hurried away.<br/>
               			6. <span class="fear fear righteousness color">Trembling took hold of them there,pain, as of a woman in travail</span>.<br/>
               			7. With the east wind, <span class="anger violence righteousness color">you break the ships</span> of Tarshish.<br/>
               			8. As we have heard, so we have seen,in the city of Yahweh of Armies, in the city of
               our God. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">God will establish it forever</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			9. We have thought about your <span class="joy praise color">loving kindness</span>, God,in the middle of your temple.<br/>
               			10. As is your name, God,so is <span class="joy praise color">your praise to the ends of the earth</span>. <span class="joy praise color">Your right hand is full of righteousness</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise color">Let Mount Zion be glad!Let the daughters of Judah rejoice</span>,<span class="joy praise righteousness color">Because of your judgments</span>.<br/>
               			12. Walk about Zion, and go around her. Number its towers.<br/>
               			13. Mark well her bulwarks. Consider her palaces,<span class="contentment righteousness color">that you may tell it to the next generation</span>.<br/>
               			14. For <span class="joy praise color">this God is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even to death</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 49</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy petitioning color">Hear this, all you peoples. Listen</span>, all you inhabitants of the world,<br/>
               			2. both low and high,rich and poor together.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy righteousness color">My mouth will speak words of wisdom. My heart shall utter understanding</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy righteousness color">I will incline my ear to a proverb</span>. I will open my riddle on the harp.<br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Why should I fear in the days of evil,when iniquity at my heels surrounds me</span>?<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger righteousness boasting color">Those who trust in their wealth,and boast in the multitude of their riches</span>—<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger righteousness color">none of them can by any means redeem his brother,nor give God a ransom for him</span>.<br/>
               			8. For the <span class="anger righteousness color">redemption of their life is costly</span>,no payment is ever enough,<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger righteousness color">that he should live on forever,that he should not see corruption</span>.<br/>
               			10. For he sees that wise men die;likewise <span class="anger righteousness violence color">the fool and the senseless perish</span>,and leave their wealth to others.<br/>
               			11. Their inward thought is that their houses will endure forever,and their dwelling places
               to all generations. They name their lands after themselves.<br/>
               			12. But <span class="contentment righteousness color">man, despite his riches, doesn’t endure. He is like the animals that perish</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="contentment righteousness color">This is the destiny of those who are foolish,and of those who approve their sayings</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			14. <span class="contentment righteousness color">They are appointed as a flock for Sheol. Death shall be their shepherd. The upright
                  shall have dominion over them in the morning. Their beauty shall decay in Sheol,far
                  from their mansion</span>.<br/>
               			15. But <span class="joy praise color">God will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol,for he will receive me</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			16. Don’t be afraid when a man is made rich,when the glory of his house is increased;<br/>
               			17. for <span class="contentment righteousness color">when he dies he will carry nothing away. His glory won’t descend after him</span>.<br/>
               			18. Though while he lived he blessed his soul—and men praise you when you do well for
               yourself—<br/>
               			19. he shall go to the generation of his fathers. <span class="contentment righteousness color">They shall never see the light</span>.<br/>
               			20. A man who has riches without understanding,is <span class="contentment righteousness violence color">like the animals that perish</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 50</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">The Mighty One</span>, God, Yahweh, speaks,and calls the earth from sunrise to sunset.<br/>
               			2. Out of Zion, the <span class="joy praise color">perfection of beauty</span>,<span class="joy praise righteousness color">God shines out</span>.<br/>
               			3. Our God comes, and <span class="fear praise righteousness color">does not keep silent. A fire devours before him. It is very stormy around him</span>.<br/>
               			4. He calls to the heavens above,to the earth, <span class="fear righteousness color">that he may judge his people</span>:<br/>
               			5. “Gather my saints together to me,those who have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.”<br/>
               			6. <span class="fear praise righteousness color">The heavens shall declare his righteousness,for God himself is judge</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			7. “Hear, my people, and I will speak;Israel, and <span class="anger righteousness color">I will testify against you. I am God, your God</span>.<br/>
               			8. I don’t rebuke you for your sacrifices. Your burnt offerings are continually before
               me.<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger righteousness color">I have no need for a bull from your stall,nor male goats from your pens</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger righteousness color">For every animal of the forest is mine</span>,and the livestock on a thousand hills.<br/>
               			11. I know all the birds of the mountains. The wild animals of the field are mine.<br/>
               			12. If I were hungry, I would not tell you,for <span class="anger righteousness color">the world is mine</span>, and all that is in it.<br/>
               			13. Will I eat the meat of bulls,or drink the blood of goats?<br/>
               			14. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Offer to God the sacrifice of thanksgiving. Pay your vows to the Most High</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Call on me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you, and you will honor me</span>.”<br/>
               			16. But <span class="anger righteousness color">to the wicked God says,“What right do you have to declare my statutes,that you have
                  taken my covenant on your lips</span>,<br/>
               			17. since you hate instruction,and throw my words behind you?<br/>
               			18. When you saw a thief, you consented with him,and have participated with adulterers.<br/>
               			19. “<span class="anger righteousness color">You give your mouth to evil. Your tongue frames deceit</span>.<br/>
               			20. <span class="anger righteousness color">You sit and speak against your brother. You slander your own mother’s son</span>.<br/>
               			21. You have done these things, and <span class="anger anxiety color">I kept silent</span>. You thought that I was just like you. <span class="anger righteousness color">I will rebuke you, and accuse you in front of your eyes</span>.<br/>
               			22. “Now consider this, you who forget God,<span class="anger violence righteousness color">lest I tear you into pieces</span>, and there be no one to deliver.<br/>
               			23. <span class="joy righteousness color">Whoever offers the sacrifice of thanksgiving glorifies me,and prepares his way so
                  that I will show God’s salvation to him</span>.”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 51</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading praise color">Have mercy on me, God, according to your loving kindness. According to the multitude
                  of your tender mercies, blot out my transgressions</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear pleading color">Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity. Cleanse me from my sin</span>.<br/>
               			3. For <span class="fear anxiety color">I know my transgressions. My sin is constantly before me</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="fear anxiety color">Against you, and you only, I have sinned,and done that which is evil in your sight</span>;that <span class="fear righteousness color">you may be proved right when you speak,and justified when you judge</span>.<br/>
               			5. Behold, <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I was born in iniquity. In sin my mother conceived me</span>.<br/>
               			6. Behold, <span class="joy praise color">you desire truth in the inward parts. You teach me wisdom in the inmost place</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="fear petitioning color">Purify me</span> with hyssop, and I will be clean. <span class="fear petitioning color">Wash me</span>, and I will be whiter than snow.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy petitioning color">Let me hear joy and gladness</span>,<span class="joy petitioning violence color">That the bones which you have broken may rejoice</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="fear petitioning color">Hide your face from my sins,and blot out all of my iniquities</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy petitioning color">Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear pleading color">Don’t throw me from your presence,and don’t take your holy Spirit from me</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="joy petitioning color">Restore to me the joy of your salvation. Uphold me with a willing spirit</span>.<br/>
               			13. Then <span class="joy righteousness color">I will teach transgressors your ways. Sinners shall be converted to you</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="fear petitioning violence color">Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed</span>, O God, the <span class="joy praise color">God of my salvation</span>. <span class="joy praise color">My tongue shall sing aloud of your righteousness</span>.<br/>
               			15. Lord, open my lips. <span class="joy praise color">My mouth shall declare your praise</span>.<br/>
               			16. For <span class="contentment righteousness color">you don’t delight in sacrifice, or else I would give it. You have no pleasure in burnt
                  offering</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="contentment righteousness color">The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. A broken and contrite heart, O God, you
                  will not despise</span>.<br/>
               			18. Do well in your <span class="joy praise color">good pleasure</span> to Zion. Build the walls of Jerusalem.<br/>
               			19. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Then you will delight in the sacrifices of righteousness,in burnt offerings and in
                  whole burnt offerings. Then they will offer bulls on your altar</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 52</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="anger righteousness boasting color">Why do you boast of mischief</span>, mighty man?<span class="joy praise color">God’s loving kindness endures continually</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">Your tongue plots destruction,like a sharp razor, working deceitfully</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger righteousness color">You love evil more than good,lying rather than speaking the truth</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness color">You love all devouring words,you deceitful tongue</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">God will likewise destroy you forever</span>. He will take you up, and pluck you out of your tent,and <span class="anger righteousness violence color">root you out of the land of the living</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy righteousness color">The righteous also will see it, and fear,and laugh at him</span>, saying,<br/>
               			7. “Behold, this is <span class="anger righteousness color">the man who didn’t make God his strength,but trusted in the abundance of his riches,and
                  strengthened himself in his wickedness</span>.”<br/>
               			8. But as for me, I am like a green olive tree in God’s house. <span class="joy righteousness praise color">I trust in God’s loving kindness forever and ever</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy righteousness praise color">I will give you thanks forever</span>, because you have done it. <span class="joy righteousness praise color">I will hope in your name</span>, for <span class="joy praise color">it is good</span>,in the presence of your saints.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 53</h2>
            <p>
               			1. The fool has said in his heart, “<span class="anger boasting color">There is no God</span>.”<span class="anger righteousness color">They are corrupt, and have done abominable iniquity. There is no one who does good</span>.<br/>
               			2. God looks down from heaven on the children of men,to see if there are any who understood,who
               seek after God.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger righteousness color">Every one of them has gone back. They have become filthy together. There is no one
                  who does good, no, not one</span>.<br/>
               			4. Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge,who eat up my people as they eat bread,and
               <span class="anger righteousness color">don’t call on God</span>?<br/>
               			5. <span class="fear fear anxiety color">There they were in great fear, where no fear was,for God has scattered the bones of
                  him who encamps against you. You have put them to shame,because God has rejected them</span>.<br/>
               			6. Oh that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion!<span class="joy praise color">When God brings back his people from captivity</span>,then Jacob shall rejoice,and Israel shall be glad.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 54</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading color">Save me, God, by your name. Vindicate me in your might</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear petitioning color">Hear my prayer, God. Listen to the words of my mouth</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear fear color">For strangers have risen up against me. Violent men have sought after my soul. They
                  haven’t set God before them</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			4. Behold, <span class="joy righteousness color">God is my helper. The Lord is the one who sustains my soul</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy righteousness violence color">He will repay the evil to my enemies. Destroy them in your truth</span>.<br/>
               			6. With a free will offering, <span class="joy righteousness praise color">I will sacrifice to you. I will give thanks to your name</span>, Yahweh, for <span class="joy praise color">it is good</span>.<br/>
               			7. For <span class="joy righteousness praise color">he has delivered me out of all trouble</span>. <span class="joy righteousness color">My eye has seen triumph over my enemies</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 55</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear petitioning color">Listen to my prayer, God. Don’t hide yourself from my supplication</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear petitioning color">Attend to me, and answer me</span>. <span class="sorrow fear color">I am restless in my complaint, and moan</span>,<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear anxiety violence color">Because of the voice of the enemy,Because of the oppression of the wicked. For they
                  bring suffering on me. In anger they hold a grudge against me</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">My heart is severely pained within me. The terrors of death have fallen on me</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="fear anxiety color">Fearfulness and trembling have come on me. Horror has overwhelmed me</span>.<br/>
               			6. I said, “<span class="sorrow pleading color">Oh that I had wings like a dove</span>!Then I would fly away, and be at rest.<br/>
               			7. Behold, then I would wander far off. I would lodge in the wilderness.”
               			<br/>
               			8. “I would hurry to a shelter from the stormy wind and storm.”<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger pleading color">Confuse them, Lord, and confound their language</span>,for <span class="anger violence color">I have seen violence and strife in the city</span>.<br/>
               			10. Day and night <span class="anger fear color">they prowl around on its walls. Malice and abuse are also within her</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="anger violence fear color">Destructive forces are within her</span>. <span class="anger fear color">Threats and lies don’t depart from her streets</span>.<br/>
               			12. For <span class="anger anxiety color">it was not an enemy who insulted me,then I could have endured it. Neither was it he
                  who hated me who raised himself up against me,then I would have hidden myself from
                  him</span>.<br/>
               			13. But it was you, a man like me,my companion, and my familiar friend.<br/>
               			14. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">We took sweet fellowship together. We walked in God’s house with company</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">Let death come suddenly on them. Let them go down alive into Sheol</span>. For <span class="anger righteousness color">wickedness is among them, in their dwelling</span>.<br/>
               			16. As for me, <span class="anger righteousness praise color">I will call on God. Yahweh will save me</span>.<br/>
               			17. Evening, morning, and at noon, <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I will cry out in distress</span>. <span class="joy praise color">He will hear my voice</span>.<br/>
               			18. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me</span>,although <span class="anger righteousness color">there are many who oppose me</span>.<br/>
               			19. <span class="joy praise color">God, who is enthroned forever,will hear, and answer them</span>. 
               <span class="anger righteousness color">They never change,who don’t fear God</span>.<br/>
               			20. <span class="anger righteousness color">He raises his hands against his friends. He has violated his covenant</span>.<br/>
               			21. His mouth was smooth as butter,but <span class="anger violence color">his heart was war</span>. His words were softer than oil,yet <span class="anger violence color">they were drawn swords</span>.<br/>
               			22. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Cast your burden on Yahweh, and he will sustain you. He will never allow the righteous
                  to be moved</span>.<br/>
               			23. But you, God, <span class="anger violence praise color">will bring them down into the pit of destruction. Bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall
                  not live out half their days</span>,but <span class="joy righteousness color">I will trust in you</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 56</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading color">Be merciful to me</span>, God, for <span class="fear fear color">man wants to swallow me up</span>. All day long, <span class="fear violence color">he attacks and oppresses me</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear fear color">My enemies want to swallow me up all day long</span>,for <span class="fear violence color">they are many who fight proudly against me</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear righteousness praise color">When I am afraid,I will put my trust in you</span>.<br/>
               			4. In God, <span class="joy praise color">I praise his word</span>. <span class="joy righteousness color">In God, I put my trust. I will not be afraid</span>. What can flesh do to me?<br/>
               			5. All day long <span class="anger anxiety color">they twist my words. All their thoughts are against me for evil</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger fear color">They conspire and lurk</span>,watching my steps, <span class="fear violence color">they are eager to take my life</span>.<br/>
               			7. Shall they escape by iniquity?<span class="anger petitioning color">In anger cast down the peoples</span>, God.<br/>
               			8. You count my wanderings. You put my tears into your container. Aren’t they in your
               book?<br/>
               			9. Then my enemies shall turn back in the day that I call. I know this, that <span class="joy righteousness color">God is for me</span>.<br/>
               			10. In God, <span class="joy praise righteousness color">I will praise his word. In Yahweh, I will praise his word</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy righteousness color">I have put my trust in God. I will not be afraid</span>. What can man do to me?<br/>
               			12. Your vows are on me, God. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">I will give thank offerings to you</span>.<br/>
               			13. For <span class="joy praise color">you have delivered my soul from death,and prevented my feet from falling,that I may
                  walk before God in the light of the living</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 57</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading color">Be merciful to me, God, be merciful to me</span>,for <span class="fear praise righteousness color">my soul takes refuge in you. Yes, in the shadow of your wings, I will take refuge,until
                  disaster has passed</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear pleading color">I cry out to God Most High</span>,to God <span class="joy praise color">who accomplishes my requests for me</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">He will send from heaven, and save me,he rebukes the one who is pursuing me</span>. 
               God will send out his <span class="joy praise color">loving kindness and his truth</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="fear violence anxiety color">My soul is among lions. I lie among those who are set on fire,even the sons of men,
                  whose teeth are spears and arrows,and their tongue a sharp sword</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">Be exalted</span>, God, above the heavens!<span class="joy praise color">Let your glory be above all the earth</span>!<br/>
               			6. <span class="fear fear color">They have prepared a net for my steps. My soul is bowed down. They dig a pit before
                  me</span>. <span class="joy righteousness color">They fall into the middle of it themselves</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy righteousness color">My heart is steadfast, God, my heart is steadfast</span>. <span class="joy praise color">I will sing, yes, I will sing praises</span>.<br/>
               			8. Wake up, my glory! Wake up, lute and harp!I will wake up the dawn.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise color">I will give thanks to you</span>, Lord, among the peoples. <span class="joy praise color">I will sing praises to you</span> among the nations.<br/>
               			10. For your <span class="joy praise color">great loving kindness</span> reaches to the heavens,and your truth to the skies.<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise color">Be exalted</span>, God, above the heavens. <span class="joy praise color">Let your glory be over all the earth</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 58</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Do <span class="anger righteousness color">you indeed speak righteousness, silent ones?Do you judge blamelessly</span>, you sons of men?<br/>
               			2. No, <span class="anger righteousness color">in your heart you plot injustice</span>. <span class="anger righteousness color">You measure out the violence of your hands in the earth</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger righteousness color">The wicked go astray from the womb. They are wayward as soon as they are born, speaking
                  lies</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness color">Their poison is like the poison of a snake;like a deaf cobra that stops its ear</span>,<br/>
               			5. which doesn’t listen to the voice of charmers, no matter how skillful the charmer
               may be.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger petitioning violence color">Break their teeth, God, in their mouth. Break out the great teeth of the young lions</span>, Yahweh.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger petitioning violence color">Let them vanish like water that flows away. When they draw the bow, let their arrows
                  be made blunt</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger petitioning violence color">Let them be like a snail which melts and passes away,like the stillborn child, who
                  has not seen the sun</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger righteousness color">Before your pots can feel the heat of the thorns,he will sweep away the green and
                  the burning alike</span>.<br/>
               				10. The <span class="joy boasting righteousness color">righteous shall rejoice</span> when he sees the vengeance. <span class="anger violence color">He shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked</span>;<br/>
               			11. so that men shall say, “<span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">Most certainly there is a reward for the righteous. Most certainly there is a God
                  who judges the earth</span>.”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 59</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading color">Deliver me from my enemies</span>, my God. <span class="fear pleading color">Set me on high from those who rise up against me</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear pleading color">Deliver me from the workers of iniquity</span>. <span class="fear pleading color">Save me from the bloodthirsty men.</span><br/>
               			3. <span class="fear fear color">For, behold, they lie in wait for my soul. The mighty gather themselves together against
                  me,not for my disobedience, nor for my sin</span>, Yahweh.<br/>
               			4. <span class="fear violence color">I have done no wrong, yet they are ready to attack me</span>. <span class="fear pleading color">Rise up, behold, and help me!</span><br/>
               			5. You, Yahweh God of Armies, the God of Israel, <span class="righteousness violence color">rouse yourself to punish the nations. Show no mercy to the wicked traitors</span>.
               			<br/>
               			6. They return at evening, howling like dogs, and prowl around the city.<br/>
               			7. Behold, <span class="anger righteousness color">they spew with their mouth. Swords are in their lips</span>,“For”, they say, “who hears us?”<br/>
               			8. But <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">you, Yahweh, laugh at them. You scoff at all the nations</span>.<br/>
               			9. Oh, my Strength, I watch for you,for <span class="joy praise color">God is my high tower</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy boasting color">My God will go before me with his loving kindness</span>. God <span class="joy boasting color">will let me look at my enemies in triumph.</span><br/>
               			11. Don’t kill them, or my people may forget. <span class="anger petitioning color">Scatter them by your power, and bring them down</span>, Lord our shield.<br/>
               			12. For the sin of their mouth, and the words of their lips,<span class="anger petitioning color">let them be caught in their pride</span>,for the curses and lies which they utter.<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger petitioning color">Consume them in wrath. Consume them, and they will be no more. Let them know that
                  God rules in Jacob,to the ends of the earth</span>.
               			<br/>
               			14. At evening let them return. <span class="anger petitioning color">Let them howl like a dog</span>, and go around the city.<br/>
               			15. <span class="anger righteousness color">They shall wander up and down for food,and wait all night if they aren’t satisfied</span>.<br/>
               			16. But <span class="contentment praise color">I will sing of your strength</span>. Yes, <span class="joy praise color">I will sing aloud of your loving kindness</span> in the morning. For <span class="contentment praise color">you have been my high tower, a refuge in the day of my distress</span>.<br/>
               			17. To you, my strength, <span class="joy praise color">I will sing praises</span>. For <span class="contentment boasting color">God is my high tower, the God of my mercy</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 60</h2>
            <p> 
               			1. God, <span class="sorrow fear color">you have rejected us</span>. <span class="sorrow fear color">You have broken us down</span>. <span class="anger fear color">You have been angry</span>. Restore us, again.<br/>
               			2. <span class="righteousness violence color">You have made the land tremble. You have torn it.</span> <span class="fear pleading color">Mend its fractures, for it quakes</span>.<br/>
               			3. You have shown your people hard things. You have made us drink the wine that makes
               us stagger.<br/>
               			4. You have given a banner to those who fear you,that it may be displayed because of
               the truth. 
               			<br/>
               			5. <span class="fear petitioning color">So that your beloved may be delivered, save with your right hand, and answer us</span>.<br/>
               			6. God has spoken from his sanctuary:“<span class="contentment boasting color">I will triumph</span>. I will divide Shechem,and measure out the valley of Succoth.<br/>
               			7. Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine. Ephraim also is the defense of my head. Judah
               is my scepter.<br/>
               			8. Moab is my wash basin. I will throw my shoe on Edom. I shout in triumph over Philistia.”<br/>
               			9. Who will bring me into the strong city? Who has led me to Edom?<br/>
               			10. <span class="fear anxiety color">Haven’t you, God, rejected us? You don’t go out with our armies, God</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear pleading color">Give us help against the adversary</span>,for the help of man is vain.<br/>
               			12. Through God we shall do valiantly,for <span class="contentment boasting color">it is he who will tread down our adversaries</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 61</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading color">Hear my cry, God. Listen to my prayer</span>.<br/>
               			2. From the end of the earth, I will call to you, when <span class="fear anxiety color">my heart is overwhelmed</span>. <span class="fear pleading petitioning color">Lead me to the rock that is higher than I</span>.<br/>
               			3. For <span class="contentment praise color">you have been a refuge for me, a strong tower from the enemy</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment praise color">I will dwell in your tent forever. I will take refuge in the shelter of your wings</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			5. For you, God, have heard my vows. You have given me the heritage of <span class="fear boasting color">those who fear your name</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy boasting color">You will prolong the king’s life; his years shall be for generations</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise color">He shall be enthroned in God’s presence forever. Appoint your loving kindness and
                  truth, that they may preserve him</span>.<br/>
               			8. So <span class="joy praise color">I will sing praise to your name forever,that I may fulfill my vows daily</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 62</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">My soul rests in God alone. My salvation is from him</span>.<br/>			
               			2. <span class="contentment praise color">He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress—I will never be greatly shaken</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear violence color">How long will you assault a man, would all of you throw him down, like a leaning wall,
                  like a tottering fence</span>?<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness color">They fully intend to throw him down from his lofty place</span>. <span class="anger righteousness color">They delight in lies</span>. They bless with their mouth, but <span class="anger righteousness color">they curse inwardly</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment praise color">My soul, wait in silence for God alone, for my expectation is from him</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="contentment praise color">He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress. I will not be shaken</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="contentment praise color">With God is my salvation and my honor. The rock of my strength, and my refuge, is
                  in God</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment praise petitioning color">Trust in him at all times, you people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge
                  for us.</span>
               			<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger righteousness color">Surely men of low degree are just a breath, and men of high degree are a lie. In the
                  balances they will go up. They are together lighter than a breath</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Don’t trust in oppression. Don’t become vain in robbery. If riches increase, don’t
                  set your heart on them</span>.<br/>
               			11. God has spoken once; twice I have heard this, <span class="contentment boasting color">that power belongs to God</span>.<br/>
               			12. Also <span class="contentment boasting praise color">to you, Lord, belongs loving kindness, for you reward every man according to his work</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 63</h2>
            <p>
               			1. God, you are my God. <span class="contentment boasting praise color">I will earnestly seek you. My soul thirsts for you. My flesh longs for you</span>, in a dry and weary land, where there is no water.<br/>
               			2. So <span class="contentment praise color">I have seen you in the sanctuary, watching your power and your glory</span>.<br/>
               			3. Because <span class="joy praise color">your loving kindness is better than life, my lips shall praise you</span>.<br/>
               			4. So <span class="contentment praise color">I will bless you while I live. I will lift up my hands in your name</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">My soul shall be satisfied as with the richest food. My mouth shall praise you with
                  joyful lips</span>,<br/>
               			6. when I remember you on my bed, and think about you in the night watches.<br/>
               			7. For <span class="contentment praise color">you have been my help. I will rejoice in the shadow of your wings</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment praise color">My soul stays close to you. Your right hand holds me up</span>.<br/>
               			9. But <span class="anger righteousness color">those who seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">They shall be given over to the power of the sword. They shall be jackal food</span>.<br/>
               			11. But <span class="contentment praise color">the king shall rejoice in God. Everyone who swears by him will praise him</span>, for <span class="anger righteousness color">the mouth of those who speak lies shall be silenced</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 64</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Hear my voice, God, in my complaint. Preserve my life from fear of the enemy</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Hide me from the conspiracy of the wicked, from the noisy crowd of the ones doing
                  evil</span>;<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger violence color">who sharpen their tongue like a sword, and aim their arrows, deadly words</span>,<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger violence color">to shoot innocent men from ambushes. They shoot at him suddenly and fearlessly</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger violence righteousness color">They encourage themselves in evil plans. They talk about laying snares secretly. They
                  say, “Who will see them?”</span><br/>
               			6. <span class="anger violence righteousness color">They plot injustice, saying, “We have made a perfect plan!” Surely man’s mind and
                  heart are cunning</span>.<br/>
               			7. But <span class="anger violence boasting color">God will shoot at them. They will be suddenly struck down with an arrow</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger righteousness color">Their own tongues shall ruin them. All who see them will shake their heads</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="fear boasting righteousness color">All mankind shall be afraid. They shall declare the work of God, and shall wisely
                  ponder what he has done</span>.<br/>			
               			10. <span class="joy boasting praise color">The righteous shall be glad in Yahweh,and shall take refuge in him. All the upright
                  in heart shall praise him</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 65</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy boasting color">Praise waits for you</span>, God, in Zion. To you shall vows be performed.<br/>
               			2. You who hear prayer, <span class="contentment boasting color">to you all men will come</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">Sins overwhelmed me, but you atoned for our transgressions</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Blessed is the one whom you choose, and cause to come near, that he may live in your
                  courts</span>. <span class="joy praise color">We will be filled with the goodness of your house, your holy temple</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise boasting color">By awesome deeds of righteousness, you answer us, God of our salvation. You who are
                  the hope of all the ends of the earth,of those who are far away on the sea</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="contentment praise color">By your power, you form the mountains, having armed yourself with strength</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="contentment praise color">You still the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their waves,and the turmoil of the
                  nations</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="fear praise color">They also who dwell in faraway places are afraid at your wonders</span>. <span class="joy praise color">You call the morning’s dawn and the evening with songs of joy</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise color">You visit the earth, and water it. You greatly enrich it. The river of God is full
                  of water. You provide them grain, for so you have ordained it</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy praise color">You drench its furrows. You level its ridges. You soften it with showers. You bless
                  it with a crop</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise color">You crown the year with your bounty. Your carts overflow with abundance</span>.<br/>
               			12. The wilderness grasslands overflow. <span class="joy praise color">The hills are clothed with gladness</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="joy praise color">The pastures are covered with flocks. The valleys also are clothed with grain. They
                  shout for joy! They also sing</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 66</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Make a joyful shout to God, all the earth</span>!<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Sing to the glory of his name! Offer glory and praise</span>!<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Tell God, “How awesome are your deeds! Through the greatness of your power, your enemies
                  submit themselves to you</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise color">All the earth will worship you,and will sing to you;they will sing to your name</span>.”
               			<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy petitioning praise color">Come, and see God’s deeds—awesome work on behalf of the children of men</span>.<br/>
               			6. He turned the sea into dry land. They went through the river on foot. There, <span class="joy praise color">we rejoiced in him</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">He rules by his might forever. His eyes watch the nations. Don’t let the rebellious
                  rise up against him</span>.
               			<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise color">Praise our God, you peoples! Make the sound of his praise heard</span>,<br/>
               			9. who preserves our life among the living, and doesn’t allow our feet to be moved.<br/>
               			10. <span class="contentment praise color">For you, God, have tested us. You have refined us, as silver is refined</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear righteousness color">You brought us into prison. You laid a burden on our backs</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="fear righteousness color">You allowed men to ride over our heads. We went through fire and through water</span>, but <span class="contentment praise color">you brought us to the place of abundance</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="contentment praise color">I will come into your temple with burnt offerings. I will pay my vows to you</span>,<br/>
               			14. which my lips promised, and my mouth spoke, when <span class="fear anxiety color">I was in distress</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="contentment praise color">I will offer to you burnt offerings of fat animals, with the offering of rams, I will
                  offer bulls with goats</span>.
               			<br/>
               			16. <span class="fear petitioning color">Come, and hear, all you who fear God. I will declare what he has done for my soul</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="sorrow praise color">I cried to him with my mouth. He was extolled with my tongue</span>.<br/>
               			18. <span class="fear righteousness color"></span>If I cherished sin in my heart, the Lord wouldn’t have listened.<br/>			
               			19. But <span class="contentment praise color">most certainly, God has listened. He has heard the voice of my prayer</span>.<br/>
               			20. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed be God, who has not turned away my prayer, nor his loving kindness from me</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 67</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment petitioning praise color">May God be merciful to us, bless us, and cause his face to shine on us</span>.<br/>
               			2. That your way may be known on earth,and your salvation among all nations,<br/>
               			3. <span class="contentment praise color">let the peoples praise you, God. Let all the peoples praise you</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise color">Oh let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you will judge the peoples with equity,and
                  govern the nations on earth</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">Let the peoples praise you, God. Let all the peoples praise you</span>.<br/>
               			6. The earth has yielded its increase. <span class="contentment praise color">God, even our own God, will bless us</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="contentment praise color">God will bless us</span>. <span class="fear boasting color">All the ends of the earth shall fear him</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 68</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="anger righteousness color">Let God arise! Let his enemies be scattered! Let them who hate him also flee before
                  him</span>.<br/>
               			2. As smoke is driven away, so drive them away. As wax melts before the fire,so <span class="anger righteousness violence color">let the wicked perish at the presence of God</span>.<br/>
               			3. But <span class="joy righteousness boasting color">let the righteous be glad. Let them rejoice before God. Yes, let them rejoice with
                  gladness</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Sing to God! Sing praises to his name! Extol him who rides on the clouds: to Yah,
                  his name! Rejoice before him</span>!<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">A father of the fatherless, and a defender of the widows, is God in his holy habitation</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">God sets the lonely in families. He brings out the prisoners with singing, but the
                  rebellious dwell in a sun-scorched land</span>.<br/>
               			7. God, when you went out before your people, when you marched through the wilderness.
               ..
               			<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger violence righteousness color">The earth trembled. The sky also poured down rain at the presence of the God of Sinai—at
                  the presence of God, the God of Israel</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise color">You, God, sent a plentiful rain. You confirmed your inheritance, when it was weary</span>.<br/>			
               			10. Your congregation lived therein. <span class="contentment praise color">You, God, prepared your goodness for the poor</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="contentment righteousness color">The Lord announced the word. The ones who proclaim it are a great company</span>.<br/>
               			12. “Kings of armies flee! They flee!” She who waits at home divides the plunder,<br/>
               			13. while you sleep among the camp fires, the wings of a dove sheathed with silver, her
               feathers with shining gold.<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger righteousness color">When the Almighty scattered kings in her, it snowed on Zalmon</span>.<br/>
               			15. The mountains of Bashan are majestic mountains. The mountains of Bashan are rugged.<br/>
               			16. <span class="anger righteousness color">Why do you look in envy</span>, you rugged mountains, at the mountain where God chooses to reign? <span class="joy praise color">Yes, Yahweh will dwell there forever</span>.<br/>
               			17. The chariots of God are tens of thousands and thousands of thousands. The Lord is
               among them, from Sinai, into the sanctuary.<br/>
               			18. You have ascended on high. You have led away captives. You have received gifts among
               people, yes, among the rebellious also, that Yah God might dwell there.<br/>
               			19. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears our burdens, even the God who is our salvation</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			20. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">God is to us a God of deliverance. To Yahweh, the Lord, belongs escape from death</span>.<br/>
               			21. But <span class="anger violence boasting color">God will strike through the head of his enemies, the hairy scalp of such a one as
                  still continues in his guiltiness</span>.<br/>
               			22. The Lord said, “I will bring you again from Bashan, I will bring you again from the
               depths of the sea;<br/>
               			23. That <span class="anger violence righteousness color">you may crush them, dipping your foot in blood, that the tongues of your dogs may
                  have their portion from your enemies</span>.”<br/>
               			24. They have seen your processions, God, even the processions of my God, my King, into
               the sanctuary.<br/>
               			25. The singers went before, the minstrels followed after, among the ladies playing with
               tambourines,<br/>
               			26. <span class="joy praise color">“Bless God in the congregations, even the Lord in the assembly of Israel!”</span><br/>
               			27. There is little Benjamin, their ruler,the princes of Judah, their council, the princes
               of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.<br/>
               			28. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Your God has commanded your strength. Strengthen, God, that which you have done for
                  us</span>.<br/>			
               			29. Because of your temple at Jerusalem, kings shall bring presents to you.<br/>
               			30. Rebuke the wild animal of the reeds, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of
               the peoples. Being humbled, may it bring bars of silver. <span class="anger petitioning color">Scatter the nations that delight in war</span>.<br/>
               			31. Princes shall come out of Egypt. Ethiopia shall hurry to stretch out her hands to
               God.<br/>
               			32. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth! Sing praises to the Lord!</span><br/>
               			33. To him who rides on the heaven of heavens, which are of old; behold, he utters his
               voice, a mighty voice.<br/>
               			34. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Ascribe strength to God! His excellency is over Israel, his strength is in the skies</span>.<br/>
               			35. <span class="joy praise color">You are awesome, God, in your sanctuaries. The God of Israel gives strength and power
                  to his people. Praise be to God</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 69</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading color">Save me, God, for the waters have come up to my neck</span>!<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear fear color">I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold. I have come into deep waters, where
                  the floods overflow me</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear fear color">I am weary with my crying. My throat is dry. My eyes fail, looking for my God</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="fear fear color">Those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head. Those who want
                  to cut me off, being my enemies wrongfully, are mighty. I have to restore what I didn’t
                  take away</span>.<br/>
               			5. God, you know my foolishness. My sins aren’t hidden from you.<br/>
               			6. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Don’t let those who wait for you be shamed through me, Lord Yahweh of Armies. Don’t
                  let those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, God of Israel</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="fear righteousness color">Because for your sake, I have borne reproach</span>. <span class="sorrow anxiety color"></span>Shame has covered my face.<br/>
               			8. <span class="fear anxiety color">I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother’s children</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="fear righteousness color">For the zeal of your house consumes me. The reproaches of those who reproach you have
                  fallen on me</span>.<br/>
               			10. When <span class="sorrow boasting color">I wept and I fasted, that was to my reproach</span>.<br/>
               			11. When I made sackcloth my clothing,I became a byword to them.<br/>
               			12. Those who sit in the gate talk about me. I am the song of the drunkards.<br/>
               			13. But as for me, my prayer is to you, Yahweh, in an acceptable time. <span class="contentment praise petitioning color">God, in the abundance of your loving kindness, answer me in the truth of your salvation</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="fear pleading color">Deliver me out of the mire, and don’t let me sink. Let me be delivered from those
                  who hate me, and out of the deep waters</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="fear pleading color">Don’t let the flood waters overwhelm me, neither let the deep swallow me up. Don’t
                  let the pit shut its mouth on me</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="fear pleading praise color">Answer me, Yahweh, for your loving kindness is good. According to the multitude of
                  your tender mercies, turn to me</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Don’t hide your face from your servant,for I am in distress. Answer me speedily</span>!<br/>
               			18. <span class="fear pleading color">Draw near to my soul, and redeem it. Ransom me because of my enemies</span>.<br/>
               			19. You know my reproach, my shame, and my dishonor. My adversaries are all before you.<br/>
               			20. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Reproach has broken my heart, and I am full of heaviness. I looked for some to take
                  pity, but there was none; for comforters, but I found none</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="anger anxiety color">They also gave me gall for my food. In my thirst, they gave me vinegar to drink</span>.<br/>
               			22. <span class="anger petitioning violence color">Let their table before them become a snare. May it become a retribution and a trap</span>.<br/>
               			23. <span class="anger petitioning violence color">Let their eyes be darkened, so that they can’t see. Let their backs be continually
                  bent</span>.<br/>
               			24. <span class="anger petitioning violence color">Pour out your indignation on them. Let the fierceness of your anger overtake them</span>.<br/>
               			25. <span class="anger petitioning violence color">Let their habitation be desolate. Let no one dwell in their tents</span>.<br/>
               			26. <span class="anger righteousness color">For they persecute him whom you have wounded</span>. <span class="sorrow violence color">They tell of the sorrow of those whom you have hurt</span>.<br/>
               			27. <span class="anger petitioning righteousness color">Charge them with crime upon crime. Don’t let them come into your righteousness</span>.<br/>
               			28. <span class="anger petitioning righteousness color">Let them be blotted out of the book of life, and not be written with the righteous</span>.<br/>
               			29. <span class="fear petitioning anxiety color">But I am in pain and distress. Let your salvation, God, protect me</span>.<br/>
               			30. <span class="joy praise boasting color">I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving</span>.<br/>
               			31. <span class="contentment boasting color">It will please Yahweh better than an ox, or a bull that has horns and hoofs</span>.<br/>
               			32. <span class="contentment boasting color">The humble have seen it, and are glad. You who seek after God, let your heart live</span>.<br/>
               			33. For <span class="contentment boasting praise color">Yahweh hears the needy, and doesn’t despise his captive people</span>.<br/>
               			34. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let heaven and earth praise him; the seas, and everything that moves therein</span>!<br/>
               			35. For God will save Zion, and build the cities of Judah. They shall settle there, and
               own it.<br/>
               			36. <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">The children also of his servants shall inherit it</span>. <span class="contentment boasting color">Those who love his name shall dwell therein</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 70</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear petitioning anxiety color">Hurry, God, to deliver me. Come quickly to help me, Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="anger petitioning color">Let them be disappointed and confounded who seek my soul. Let those who desire my
                  ruin be turned back in disgrace</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger petitioning righteousness color">Let them be turned because of their shame</span>. Who say, “Aha! Aha!”<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment praise color">Let all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. Let those who love your salvation
                  continually say,“Let God be exalted</span>!”<br/>
               			5. But <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">I am poor and needy. Come to me quickly, God. You are my help and my deliverer. Yahweh,
                  don’t delay</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 71</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment anxiety pleading color">In you, Yahweh, I take refuge. Never let me be disappointed</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Deliver me in your righteousness, and rescue me. Turn your ear to me, and save me</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Be to me a rock of refuge to which I may always go. Give the command to save me, for
                  you are my rock and my fortress</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="fear pleading righteousness color">Rescue me, my God, from the hand of the wicked,from the hand of the unrighteous and
                  cruel man</span>.<br/>
               			5. For <span class="contentment praise color">you are my hope, Lord Yahweh; my confidence from my youth</span>.<br/>
               			6. I have relied on you from the womb. You are he who took me out of my mother’s womb.
               <span class="contentment praise color">I will always praise you</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="contentment boasting color">I am a marvel to many</span>, but <span class="contentment praise color">you are my strong refuge</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment praise color">My mouth shall be filled with your praise, with your honor all day long</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Don’t reject me in my old age. Don’t forsake me when my strength fails</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="fear anxiety color">For my enemies talk about me. Those who watch for my soul conspire together</span>,<br/>
               			11. saying, “God has forsaken him. Pursue and take him, for no one will rescue him.”<br/>
               			12. <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">God, don’t be far from me. My God, hurry to help me</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Let my accusers be disappointed and consumed. Let them be covered with disgrace and
                  scorn who want to harm me</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="contentment praise color">But I will always hope, and will add to all of your praise</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">My mouth will tell about your righteousness, and of your salvation all day, though
                  I don’t know its full measure</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="contentment boasting righteousness color">I will come with the mighty acts of the Lord Yahweh. I will make mention of your righteousness,
                  even of yours alone</span>.<br/>
               			17. God, you have taught me from my youth. Until now, <span class="contentment praise boasting color">I have declared your wondrous works</span>.<br/>
               			18. Yes, even when I am old and gray-haired, <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">God, don’t forsake me, until I have declared your strength to the next generation,
                  your might to everyone who is to come</span>.<br/>
               			19. <span class="contentment righteousness praise color">Your righteousness also, God, reaches to the heavens; you have done great things.
                  God, who is like you</span>?<br/>
               			20. <span class="contentment praise color">You, who have shown us many and bitter troubles, you will let me live. You will bring
                  us up again from the depths of the earth</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Increase my honor, and comfort me again</span>.<br/>
               			22. <span class="joy praise color">I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, my God. I sing praises
                  to you with the lyre, Holy One of Israel</span>.<br/>
               			23. <span class="joy praise color">My lips shall shout for joy!My soul, which you have redeemed, sings praises to you</span>!<br/>
               			24. <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">My tongue will also talk about your righteousness all day long, for they are disappointed,
                  and they are confounded, who want to harm me</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 72</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment petitioning color">God, give the king your justice; your righteousness to the royal son</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="contentment righteousness color">He will judge your people with righteousness,and your poor with justice</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="contentment righteousness color">The mountains shall bring prosperity to the people. The hills bring the fruit of righteousness</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">He will judge the poor of the people. He will save the children of the needy, and
                  will break the oppressor in pieces</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="fear righteousness boasting color">They shall fear you while the sun endures</span>; and as long as the moon, throughout all generations.<br/>
               			6. He will come down like rain on the mown grass, as showers that water the earth.<br/>
               			7. In his days, <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">the righteous shall flourish, and abundance of peace</span>, until the moon is no more.<br/>
               			8. He shall have dominion also from sea to sea,from the River to the ends of the earth.<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger righteousness color">Those who dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him. His enemies shall lick the
                  dust</span>.<br/>
               			10. The kings of Tarshish and of the islands will bring tribute. The kings of Sheba and
               Seba shall offer gifts.<br/>
               			11. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">Yes, all kings shall fall down before him. All nations shall serve him</span>.<br/>
               			12. For <span class="contentment boasting praise color">he will deliver the needy when he cries;the poor, who has no helper</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="contentment boasting praise color">He will have pity on the poor and needy. He will save the souls of the needy</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="contentment boasting praise color">He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence. Their blood will be precious
                  in his sight</span>.<br/>
               			15. They shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">Men shall pray for him continually. They shall bless him all day long</span>.<br/>
               			16. Abundance of grain shall be throughout the land. Its fruit sways like Lebanon. Let
               it flourish, thriving like the grass of the field.<br/>
               			17. <span class="contentment praise color">His name endures forever. His name continues as long as the sun. Men shall be blessed
                  by him. All nations will call him blessed</span>.<br/>
               			18. <span class="joy praise color">Praise be to Yahweh God, the God of Israel, who alone does marvelous deeds</span>.<br/>
               			19. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed be his glorious name forever! Let the whole earth be filled with his glory!
                  Amen and amen</span>.<br/>
               			20. This ends the prayers by David, the son of Jesse.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 73</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">Surely God is good to Israel,to those who are pure in heart</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear anxiety color">But as for me, my feet were almost gone. My steps had nearly slipped</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger anxiety color">For I was envious of the arrogant, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger boasting righteousness color">For there are no struggles in their death, but their strength is firm</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger boasting righteousness color">They are free from burdens of men, neither are they plagued like other men</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger righteousness color">Therefore pride is like a chain around their neck. Violence covers them like a garment</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger righteousness color">Their eyes bulge with fat. Their minds pass the limits of conceit</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger righteousness color">They scoff and speak with malice. In arrogance, they threaten oppression</span>.<br/>
               			9. They have set their mouth in the heavens. Their tongue walks through the earth.<br/>
               			10. Therefore their people return to them,and they drink up waters of abundance.<br/>
               			11. They say, “How does God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High?”<br/>
               			12. Behold, <span class="anger righteousness color">these are the wicked. Being always at ease, they increase in riches</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger righteousness color">Surely I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocence</span>,<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger righteousness color">For all day long I have been plagued, and punished every morning</span>.<br/>
               			15. If I had said, “I will speak thus”; behold, I would have betrayed the generation of
               your children.<br/>
               			16. When I tried to understand this, <span class="sorrow fear color">it was too painful for me</span>;<br/>
               			17. Until I entered God’s sanctuary,and considered their latter end.<br/>
               			18. Surely you set them in slippery places. <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">You throw them down to destruction</span>.<br/>
               			19. How <span class="anger righteousness color">they are suddenly destroyed! They are completely swept away with terrors</span>.<br/>
               			20. As a dream when one wakes up,so, Lord, when you awake, <span class="anger righteousness color">you will despise their fantasies</span>.<br/>
               			21. For <span class="sorrow anxiety color">my soul was grieved. I was embittered in my heart</span>.<br/>
               			22. <span class="anger anxiety color">I was so senseless and ignorant. I was a brute beast before you</span>.<br/>
               			23. Nevertheless, <span class="contentment boasting color">I am continually with you</span>. You have held my right hand.<br/>
               			24. <span class="contentment boasting color">You will guide me with your counsel, and afterward receive me to glory</span>.<br/>
               			25. Whom do I have in heaven? <span class="contentment boasting color">There is no one on earth whom I desire besides you</span>.<br/>
               			26. <span class="fear boasting praise color">My flesh and my heart fails,but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever</span>.<br/>
               			27. For, behold, <span class="anger righteousness color">those who are far from you shall perish. You have destroyed all those who are unfaithful
                  to you</span>.<br/>
               			28. But <span class="contentment boasting righteousness color">it is good for me to come close to God. I have made the Lord Yahweh my refuge, that
                  I may tell of all your works</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 74</h2>
            <p>
               			1. God, <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">why have you rejected us forever? Why does your anger smolder against the sheep of
                  your pasture</span>?<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">Remember your congregation, which you purchased of old,which you have redeemed to
                  be the tribe of your inheritance;Mount Zion, in which you have lived</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Lift up your feet to the perpetual ruins, all the evil that the enemy has done in
                  the sanctuary</span>.<br/>
               			4. Your adversaries have roared in the middle of your assembly. They have set up their
               standards as signs.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger violence color">They behaved like men wielding axes,cutting through a thicket of trees</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger violence color">Now they break all its carved work down with hatchet and hammers</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger violence color">They have burned your sanctuary to the ground. They have profaned the dwelling place
                  of your Name</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger violence boasting color">They said in their heart, “We will crush them completely.”They have burned up all
                  the places in the land where God was worshiped</span>.<br/>
               			9. We see no miraculous signs. There is no longer any prophet,neither is there among
               us anyone who knows how long.<br/>
               			10. <span class="fear anxiety color">How long, God, shall the adversary reproach?Shall the enemy blaspheme your name forever</span>?<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear anxiety petitioning color">Why do you draw back your hand, even your right hand?Take it from your chest and consume
                  them</span>!<br/>
               			12. Yet <span class="contentment praise boasting color">God is my King of old,working salvation throughout the earth</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="contentment violence color">You divided the sea by your strength. You broke the heads of the sea monsters in the
                  waters</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="contentment violence color">You broke the heads of Leviathan in pieces. You gave him as food to people and desert
                  creatures</span>.<br/>
               			15. You opened up spring and stream. You dried up mighty rivers.<br/>
               			16. The day is yours, the night is also yours. You have prepared the light and the sun.<br/>
               			17. You have set all the boundaries of the earth. You have made summer and winter.<br/>
               			18. Remember this, that <span class="anger righteousness color">the enemy has mocked you, Yahweh. Foolish people have blasphemed your name</span>.<br/>
               			19. <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">Don’t deliver the soul of your dove to wild beasts. Don’t forget the life of your
                  poor forever</span>.<br/>
               			20. <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">Honor your covenant,for haunts of violence fill the dark places of the earth</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">Don’t let the oppressed return ashamed. Let the poor and needy praise your name</span>.<br/>
               			22. <span class="fear righteousness pleading color">Arise, God! Plead your own cause. Remember how the foolish man mocks you all day</span>.<br/>
               			23. <span class="fear righteousness pleading color">Don’t forget the voice of your adversaries. The tumult of those who rise up against
                  you ascends continually</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 75</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">We give thanks to you, God. We give thanks, for your Name is near. Men tell about
                  your wondrous works</span>.<br/>
               			2. When I choose the appointed time, <span class="contentment righteousness color">I will judge blamelessly</span>.<br/>
               			3. The earth and all its inhabitants quake. I firmly hold its pillars. 
               			<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness color">I said to the arrogant, “Don’t boast!” I said to the wicked, “Don’t lift up the horn</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger righteousness color">Don’t lift up your horn on high. Don’t speak with a stiff neck</span>.”<br/>
               			6. For neither from the east, nor from the west,nor yet from the south, comes exaltation.<br/>
               			7. But <span class="contentment righteousness color">God is the judge. He puts down one, and lifts up another</span>.<br/>
               			8. For in Yahweh’s hand there is a cup, full of foaming wine mixed with spices. He pours
               it out. <span class="anger righteousness color">Indeed the wicked of the earth drink and drink it to its very dregs</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="contentment praise color">But I will declare this forever: I will sing praises to the God of Jacob</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger violence righteousness color">I will cut off all the horns of the wicked, but the horns of the righteous shall be
                  lifted up</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 76</h2>
            <p>
               			1. In Judah, God is known. His name is great in Israel.<br/>
               			2. His tabernacle is also in Salem;His dwelling place in Zion.<br/>
               			3. There <span class="contentment boasting violence color">he broke the flaming arrows of the bow,the shield, and the sword, and the weapons
                  of war</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment praise color">Glorious are you, and excellent, more than mountains of game</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger violence color">Valiant men lie plundered, they have slept their last sleep. None of the men of war
                  can lift their hands</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger violence color">At your rebuke, God of Jacob, both chariot and horse are cast into a dead sleep</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="fear fear color">You, even you, are to be feared. Who can stand in your sight when you are angry</span>?<br/>
               			8. <span class="fear fear color">You pronounced judgment from heaven. The earth feared, and was silent</span>,<br/>
               			9. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">when God arose to judgment, to save all the afflicted ones of the earth</span>.
               			<br/>
               			10. Surely <span class="fear praise color">the wrath of man praises you</span>. The survivors of your wrath are restrained.<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear petitioning color">Make vows to Yahweh your God, and fulfill them! Let all of his neighbors bring presents
                  to him who is to be feared</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="fear fear color">He will cut off the spirit of princes. He is feared by the kings of the earth</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 77</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="sorrow pleading anxiety color">My cry goes to God! Indeed, I cry to God for help,and for him to listen to me</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord. My hand was stretched out in the night,
                  and didn’t get tired. My soul refused to be comforted</span>.<br/>
               			3. I remember God, and <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I groan. I complain, and my spirit is overwhelmed</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			4. You hold my eyelids open. <span class="fear anxiety color">I am so troubled that I can’t speak</span>.<br/>
               			5. I have considered the days of old,the years of ancient times.<br/>
               			6. I remember my song in the night. I consider in my own heart;my spirit diligently inquires:<br/>
               			7. “<span class="fear anxiety color">Will the Lord reject us forever?Will he be favorable no more</span>?<br/>
               			8. <span class="fear anxiety color">Has his loving kindness vanished forever?Does his promise fail for generations</span>?<br/>
               			9. <span class="fear anxiety color">Has God forgotten to be gracious?Has he, in anger, withheld his compassion</span>?”
               			<br/>
               			10. Then I thought, <span class="contentment petitioning color">“I will appeal to this:the years of the right hand of the Most High.”</span><br/>
               			11. <span class="contentment praise color">I will remember Yah’s deeds;for I will remember your wonders of old</span>.<br/>
               			12. I will also meditate on all your work,and consider your doings.<br/>
               			13. Your way, God, is in the sanctuary. <span class="contentment praise color">What god is great like God</span>?<br/>
               			14. <span class="contentment praise color">You are the God who does wonders. You have made your strength known among the peoples</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="contentment praise color">You have redeemed your people with your arm,the sons of Jacob and Joseph</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			16. The waters saw you, God. The waters saw you, and <span class="fear fear color">they writhed. The depths also convulsed</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="fear violence color">The clouds poured out water. The skies resounded with thunder. Your arrows also flashed
                  around</span>.<br/>
               			18. The voice of your thunder was in the whirlwind. The lightnings lit up the world. <span class="fear fear color">The earth trembled and shook</span>.<br/>
               			19. Your way was through the sea;your paths through the great waters. Your footsteps were
               not known.<br/>
               			20. <span class="contentment praise color">You led your people like a flock</span>,by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 78</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Hear my teaching, my people. Turn your ears to the words of my mouth</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="contentment righteousness color">I will open my mouth in a parable. I will utter dark sayings of old</span>,<br/>
               			3. Which we have heard and known,and our fathers have told us.<br/>
               			4. We will not hide them from their children, <span class="contentment praise petitioning color">telling to the generation to come the praises of Yahweh,his strength, and his wondrous
                  deeds that he has done</span>.<br/>
               			5. For he established a covenant in Jacob,and appointed a teaching in Israel,which he
               commanded our fathers,that they should make them known to their children;<br/>
               			6. that the generation to come might know, even the children who should be born;who should
               arise and tell their children,<br/>
               			7. that they might set their hope in God,and not forget God’s deeds,but keep his commandments,<br/>
               			8. and might not be as their fathers,<span class="anger righteousness color">a stubborn and rebellious generation,a generation that didn’t make their hearts loyal,whose
                  spirit was not steadfast with God</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger violence color">The children of Ephraim, being armed and carrying bows,turned back in the day of battle</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger righteousness color">They didn’t keep God’s covenant,and refused to walk in his law</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="anger righteousness color">They forgot his doings,his wondrous deeds that he had shown them</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="contentment praise color">He did marvelous things in the sight of their fathers,in the land of Egypt, in the
                  field of Zoan</span>.<br/>
               			13. He split the sea, and caused them to pass through. He made the waters stand as a heap.<br/>
               			14. In the daytime he also led them with a cloud,and all night with a light of fire.<br/>
               			15. He split rocks in the wilderness,and gave them drink abundantly as out of the depths.<br/>
               			16. He brought streams also out of the rock,and caused waters to run down like rivers.<br/>
               			17. Yet <span class="anger righteousness color">they still went on to sin against him,to rebel against the Most High in the desert</span>.<br/>
               			18. <span class="anger righteousness color">They tempted God in their heartby asking food according to their desire</span>.<br/>
               			19. Yes, <span class="anger righteousness color">they spoke against God. They said, “Can God prepare a table in the wilderness</span>?<br/>
               			20. Behold, he struck the rock, so that waters gushed out,and streams overflowed. Can
               he give bread also?Will he provide meat for his people?”<br/>
               			21. Therefore <span class="anger righteousness color">Yahweh heard, and was angry. A fire was kindled against Jacob,anger also went up against
                  Israel</span>,<br/>
               			22. <span class="anger righteousness color">because they didn’t believe in God,and didn’t trust in his salvation</span>.<br/>
               			23. Yet he commanded the skies above,and opened the doors of heaven.<br/>
               			24. He rained down manna on them to eat,and gave them food from the sky.<br/>
               			25. Man ate the bread of angels. He sent them food to the full.<br/>
               			26. He caused the east wind to blow in the sky. By his power he guided the south wind.<br/>
               			27. He rained also meat on them as the dust;winged birds as the sand of the seas.<br/>
               			28. He let them fall in the middle of their camp,around their habitations.<br/>
               			29. So they ate, and were well filled. He gave them their own desire.<br/>
               			30. They didn’t turn from their cravings. Their food was yet in their mouths,<br/>
               			31. when <span class="anger righteousness violence color">the anger of God went up against them,killed some of their fattest,and struck down
                  the young men of Israel</span>.<br/>
               			32. For all this <span class="anger righteousness color">they still sinned,and didn’t believe in his wondrous works</span>.<br/>
               			33. Therefore <span class="anger righteousness color">he consumed their days in vanity,and their years in terror</span>.<br/>
               			34. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">When he killed them, then they inquired after him. They returned and sought God earnestly</span>.<br/>
               			35. They remembered that God was their rock,the Most High God, their redeemer.<br/>
               			36. But <span class="anger righteousness color">they flattered him with their mouth,and lied to him with their tongue</span>.<br/>
               			37. For <span class="anger righteousness color">their heart was not right with him,neither were they faithful in his covenant</span>.<br/>
               			38. But <span class="anger righteousness boasting color">he, being merciful, forgave iniquity, and didn’t destroy them. Yes, many times he
                  turned his anger away,and didn’t stir up all his wrath</span>.<br/>
               			39. He remembered that they were but flesh,a wind that passes away, and doesn’t come again.<br/>
               			40. How often <span class="anger righteousness color">they rebelled against him in the wilderness,and grieved him in the desert</span>!<br/>
               			41. <span class="anger righteousness color">They turned again and tempted God,and provoked the Holy One of Israel</span>.<br/>
               			42. They didn’t remember his hand,nor the day when he redeemed them from the adversary;<br/>
               			43. how he set his signs in Egypt,his wonders in the field of Zoan,<br/>
               			44. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">he turned their rivers into blood,and their streams, so that they could not drink</span>.<br/>
               			45. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">He sent among them swarms of flies, which devoured them;and frogs, which destroyed
                  them</span>.<br/>
               			46. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">He gave also their increase to the caterpillar,and their labor to the locust</span>.<br/>
               			47. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">He destroyed their vines with hail,their sycamore fig trees with frost</span>.<br/>
               			48. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">He gave over their livestock also to the hail,and their flocks to hot thunderbolts</span>.<br/>
               			49. <span class="anger righteousness color">He threw on them the fierceness of his anger,wrath, indignation, and trouble,and a
                  band of angels of evil</span>.<br/>
               			50. <span class="anger righteousness color">He made a path for his anger. He didn’t spare their soul from death,but gave their
                  life over to the pestilence</span>,<br/>
               			51. and <span class="anger righteousness violence color">struck all the firstborn in Egypt</span>,the chief of their strength in the tents of Ham.<br/>
               			52. But <span class="contentment praise boasting color">he led out his own people like sheep,and guided them in the wilderness like a flock</span>.<br/>
               			53. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">He led them safely, so that they weren’t afraid</span>,but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.<br/>
               			54. He brought them to the border of his sanctuary,to this mountain, which his right hand
               had taken.<br/>
               			55. He also drove out the nations before them,allotted them for an inheritance by line,and
               made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.<br/>
               			56. Yet <span class="anger righteousness color">they tempted and rebelled against the Most High God,and didn’t keep his testimonies</span>;<br/>
               			57. but <span class="anger righteousness color">turned back, and dealt treacherously like their fathers. They were twisted like a
                  deceitful bow</span>.<br/>
               			58. For <span class="anger righteousness color">they provoked him to anger with their high places,and moved him to jealousy with their
                  engraved images</span>.<br/>
               			59. When God heard this, <span class="anger righteousness color">he was angry,and greatly abhorred Israel</span>;<br/>
               			60. So that he abandoned the tent of Shiloh,the tent which he placed among men;<br/>
               			61. and delivered his strength into captivity,his glory into the adversary’s hand.<br/>
               			62. <span class="anger righteousness color">He also gave his people over to the sword,and was angry with his inheritance</span>.<br/>
               			63. <span class="anger violence color">Fire devoured their young men</span>. Their virgins had no wedding song.<br/>
               			64. <span class="anger violence color">Their priests fell by the sword,and their widows couldn’t weep</span>.<br/>
               			65. Then the Lord awakened as one out of sleep,like a mighty man who shouts by reason
               of wine.<br/>
               			66. <span class="anger violence color">He struck his adversaries backward. He put them to a perpetual reproach</span>.<br/>
               			67. Moreover <span class="anger righteousness color">he rejected the tent of Joseph,and didn’t choose the tribe of Ephraim</span>,<br/>
               			68. But chose the tribe of Judah,Mount Zion which he loved.<br/>
               			69. He built his sanctuary like the heights,like the earth which he has established forever.<br/>
               			70. He also chose David his servant,and took him from the sheepfolds;<br/>
               			71. from following the ewes that have their young,he brought him to be the shepherd of
               Jacob, his people,and Israel, his inheritance.<br/>
               			72. <span class="contentment praise color">So he was their shepherd according to the integrity of his heart</span>,and guided them by the skillfulness of his hands.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 79</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">God, the nations have come into your inheritance. They have defiled your holy temple.
                  They have laid Jerusalem in heaps</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">They have given the dead bodies of your servants to be food for the birds of the sky,the
                  flesh of your saints to the animals of the earth</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">Their blood they have shed like water around Jerusalem. There was no one to bury them</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger anxiety color">We have become a reproach to our neighbors,a scoffing and derision to those who are
                  around us</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger anxiety violence color">How long, Yahweh?Will you be angry forever?Will your jealousy burn like fire</span>?<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger petitioning violence color">Pour out your wrath on the nations that don’t know you;on the kingdoms that don’t
                  call on your name</span>;<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger fear violence color">For they have devoured Jacob,and destroyed his homeland</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="fear petitioning anxiety color">Don’t hold the iniquities of our forefathers against us. Let your tender mercies speedily
                  meet us,for we are in desperate need</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="fear petitioning anxiety color">Help us, God of our salvation, for the glory of your name. Deliver us, and forgive
                  our sins, for your name’s sake</span>.<br/>
               			10. Why should the nations say, “Where is their God?”<span class="anger petitioning violence color">Let it be known among the nations, before our eyes,that vengeance for your servants’
                  blood is being poured out</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear petitioning color">Let the sighing of the prisoner come before you. According to the greatness of your
                  power, preserve those who are sentenced to death</span>.<br/>
               			12. Pay back to our neighbors seven times into their bosom their reproach with which they
               have reproached you, Lord.<br/>
               			13. So we, your people and sheep of your pasture, <span class="contentment praise color">will give you thanks forever. We will praise you forever, to all generations</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 80</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Hear us, Shepherd of Israel,you who lead Joseph like a flock,you who sit above the
                  cherubim, shine out</span>.<br/>
               			2. Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">stir up your might!Come to save us</span>!<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Turn us again, God. Cause your face to shine,and we will be saved</span>.<br/>
               			4. Yahweh God of Armies,<span class="fear pleading anxiety color">How long will you be angry against the prayer of your people</span>?<br/>
               			5. You have fed them with the bread of tears,and given them tears to drink in large measure.<br/>
               			6. <span class="fear anxiety color">You make us a source of contention to our neighbors. Our enemies laugh among themselves</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Turn us again, God of Armies. Cause your face to shine,and we will be saved</span>.<br/>
               			8. You brought a vine out of Egypt. You drove out the nations, and planted it.<br/>
               			9. You cleared the ground for it. It took deep root, and filled the land.<br/>
               			10. The mountains were covered with its shadow. Its boughs were like God’s cedars.<br/>
               			11. It sent out its branches to the sea,Its shoots to the River.<br/>
               			12. Why have you broken down its walls,so that all those who pass by the way pluck it?<br/>
               			13. The boar out of the wood ravages it. The wild animals of the field feed on it.<br/>
               			14. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Turn again, we beg you, God of Armies. Look down from heaven, and see, and visit this
                  vine</span>,<br/>
               			15. the stock which your right hand planted,the branch that you made strong for yourself.<br/>
               			16. It’s burned with fire. It’s cut down. <span class="anger righteousness color">They perish at your rebuke</span>.<br/>
               			17. Let your hand be on the man of your right hand,on the son of man whom you made strong
               for yourself.<br/>
               			18. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">So we will not turn away from you. Revive us, and we will call on your name</span>.<br/>
               			19. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Turn us again, Yahweh God of Armies. Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 81</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy petitioning praise color">Sing aloud to God, our strength! Make a joyful shout to the God of Jacob</span>!<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy petitioning praise color">Raise a song, and bring here the tambourine,the pleasant lyre with the harp</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy petitioning praise color">Blow the trumpet at the New Moon</span>,at the full moon, on our feast day.<br/>
               			4. For it is a statute for Israel,an ordinance of the God of Jacob.<br/>
               			5. He appointed it in Joseph for a covenant,when he went out over the land of Egypt,I
               heard a language that I didn’t know.<br/>
               			6. “I removed his shoulder from the burden. His hands were freed from the basket.<br/>
               			7. You called in trouble, and I delivered you. I answered you in the secret place of
               thunder. I tested you at the waters of Meribah.”
               			<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment pleading color">“Hear, my people, and I will testify to you,Israel, if you would listen to me!</span><br/>
               			9. There shall be no strange god in you,neither shall you worship any foreign god.<br/>
               			10. I am Yahweh, your God,who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth
               wide, and I will fill it.<br/>
               			11. But my people didn’t listen to my voice. Israel desired none of me.<br/>
               			12. <span class="anger righteousness color">So I let them go after the stubbornness of their hearts,that they might walk in their
                  own counsels</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger righteousness color">Oh that my people would listen to me,that Israel would walk in my ways</span>!<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger righteousness color">I would soon subdue their enemies,and turn my hand against their adversaries</span>.<br/>
               			15. The haters of Yahweh would cringe before him,and <span class="anger righteousness color">their punishment would last forever</span>.<br/>
               			16. But he would have also fed them with the finest of the wheat. <span class="contentment boasting color">I will satisfy you with honey out of the rock</span>.”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 82</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment righteousness color">God presides in the great assembly. He judges among the gods</span>.<br/>
               			2. “<span class="anger righteousness color">How long will you judge unjustly,and show partiality to the wicked</span>?”
               			<br/>
               			3. <span class="contentment petitioning color">“Defend the weak, the poor, and the fatherless. Maintain the rights of the poor and
                  oppressed.</span><br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Rescue the weak and needy. Deliver them out of the hand of the wicked.</span>”<br/>
               			5. They don’t know, neither do they understand. They walk back and forth in darkness.
               All the foundations of the earth are shaken.<br/>
               			6. I said, “You are gods, all of you are sons of the Most High.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger righteousness color">Nevertheless you shall die like men, and fall like one of the rulers</span>.”<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger righteousness color">Arise, God, judge the earth,for you inherit all of the nations</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 83</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">God, don’t keep silent. Don’t keep silent,and don’t be still, God</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="anger violence color">For, behold, your enemies are stirred up. Those who hate you have lifted up their
                  heads</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger righteousness color">They conspire with cunning against your people. They plot against your cherished ones</span>.<br/>
               			4. “Come,” they say, “<span class="anger violence color">let’s destroy them as a nation,that the name of Israel may be remembered no more</span>.”<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger righteousness color">For they have conspired together with one mind. They form an alliance against you</span>.<br/>
               			6. The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites;Moab, and the Hagrites;<br/>
               			7. Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek;Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre;<br/>
               			8. Assyria also is joined with them. They have helped the children of Lot. 
               			<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger petitioning color">Do to them as you did to Midian,as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the river Kishon</span>;<br/>
               			10. who perished at Endor,who became as dung for the earth.<br/>
               			11. Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb;yes, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna;<br/>
               			12. who said, “Let’s take possession of God’s pasture lands.”<br/>
               			13. My God, <span class="anger petitioning color">make them like tumbleweed;like chaff before the wind</span>.<br/>
               			14. As the fire that burns the forest,as the flame that sets the mountains on fire,<br/>
               			15. so <span class="anger petitioning color">pursue them with your tempest,and terrify them with your storm</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="anger petitioning color">Fill their faces with confusion,that they may seek your name, Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="anger petitioning color">Let them be disappointed and dismayed forever. Yes, let them be confounded and perish</span>;<br/>
               			18. <span class="anger petitioning color">that they may know that you alone, whose name is Yahweh,are the Most High over all
                  the earth</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 84</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">How lovely are your dwellings,Yahweh of Armies</span>!<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy pleading color">My soul longs, and even faints for the courts of Yahweh. My heart and my flesh cry
                  out for the living God</span>.<br/>
               			3. Yes, the sparrow has found a home,and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may
               have her young,near your altars, Yahweh of Armies, my King, and my God.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed are those who dwell in your house. They are always praising you</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed are those whose strength is in you;who have set their hearts on a pilgrimage</span>.<br/>
               			6. Passing through the valley of Weeping, they make it a place of springs. Yes, the autumn
               rain covers it with blessings.<br/>
               			7. They go from strength to strength. Everyone of them appears before God in Zion.<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment pleading color">Yahweh, God of Armies, hear my prayer. Listen, God of Jacob</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			9. Behold, God our shield,look at the face of your anointed.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy praise color">For a day in your courts is better than a thousand. I would rather be a doorkeeper
                  in the house of my God,than to dwell in the tents of wickedness</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise color">For Yahweh God is a sun and a shield. Yahweh will give grace and glory. He withholds
                  no good thing from those who walk blamelessly</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh of Armies,blessed is the man who trusts in you</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 85</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh, you have been favorable to your land. You have restored the fortunes of Jacob</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">You have forgiven the iniquity of your people. You have covered all their sin</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">You have taken away all your wrath. You have turned from the fierceness of your anger</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Turn us, God of our salvation,and cause your indignation toward us to cease</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger anxiety fear color">Will you be angry with us forever?Will you draw out your anger to all generations</span>?<br/>
               			6. <span class="fear anxiety color">Won’t you revive us again,that your people may rejoice in you</span>?<br/>
               			7. <span class="contentment petitioning praise color">Show us your loving kindness, Yahweh. Grant us your salvation</span>.<br/>
               			8. I will hear what God, Yahweh, will speak,for he will speak peace to his people, his
               saints; <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">but let them not turn again to folly</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise boasting color">Surely his salvation is near those who fear him,that glory may dwell in our land</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Mercy and truth meet together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other</span>.<br/>
               			11. Truth springs out of the earth. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Righteousness has looked down from heaven</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="joy praise color">Yes, Yahweh will give that which is good. Our land will yield its increase</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Righteousness goes before him,And prepares the way for his steps</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 86</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">Hear, Yahweh, and answer me,for I am poor and needy</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="contentment petitioning boasting color">Preserve my soul, for I am godly. You, my God, save your servant who trusts in you</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Be merciful to me, Lord,for I call to you all day long</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy petitioning color">Bring joy to the soul of your servant,for to you, Lord, do I lift up my soul</span>.<br/>
               			5. For <span class="contentment praise color">you, Lord, are good, and ready to forgive;abundant in loving kindness to all those
                  who call on you</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anxiety petitioning color">Hear, Yahweh, my prayer. Listen to the voice of my petitions</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="fear petitioning color">In the day of my trouble I will call on you,for you will answer me</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment praise color">There is no one like you among the gods, Lord,nor any deeds like your deeds</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="contentment praise color">All nations you have made will come and worship before you, Lord. They shall glorify
                  your name</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="contentment praise color">For you are great, and do wondrous things. You are God alone</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="praise petitioning color">Teach me your way, Yahweh. I will walk in your truth. Make my heart undivided to fear
                  your name</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="contentment praise color">I will praise you, Lord my God, with my whole heart. I will glorify your name forever
                  more</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="contentment praise color">For your loving kindness is great toward me. You have delivered my soul from the lowest
                  Sheol</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="fear righteousness violence color">God, the proud have risen up against me. A company of violent men have sought after
                  my soul,and they don’t hold regard for you before them</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="contentment praise color">But you, Lord, are a merciful and gracious God,slow to anger, and abundant in loving
                  kindness and truth</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="fear petitioning color">Turn to me, and have mercy on me!Give your strength to your servant. Save the son
                  of your servant</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="fear petitioning praise color">Show me a sign of your goodness,that those who hate me may see it, and be shamed,because
                  you, Yahweh, have helped me, and comforted me</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 87</h2>
            <p>
               			1. His foundation is in the holy mountains.<br/>
               			2. Yahweh loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">Glorious things are spoken about you, city of God</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			4. I will record Rahab and Babylon among those who acknowledge me. Behold, Philistia,
               Tyre, and also Ethiopia:“This one was born there.”<br/>
               			5. Yes, of Zion it will be said, “This one and that one was born in her;”the Most High
               himself will establish her.<br/>
               			6. Yahweh will count, when he writes up the peoples,“This one was born there.”
               			<br/>
               			7. Those who sing as well as those who dance say,“All my springs are in you.”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 88</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Yahweh, the God of my salvation,<span class="sorrow pleading color">I have cried day and night before you</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Let my prayer enter into your presence. Turn your ear to my cry</span>.<br/>
               			3. For <span class="sorrow pleading color">my soul is full of troubles</span>. My life draws near to Sheol.<br/>
               			4. <span class="sorrow fear color">I am counted among those who go down into the pit. I am like a man who has no help</span>,<br/>
               			5. <span class="sorrow violence color">set apart among the dead,like the slain who lie in the grave,whom you remember no
                  more. They are cut off from your hand</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="sorrow fear color">You have laid me in the lowest pit,in the darkest depths</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger fear color">Your wrath lies heavily on me. You have afflicted me with all your waves</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger fear color">You have taken my friends from me. You have made me an abomination to them. I am confined,
                  and I can’t escape</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="sorrow pleading color">My eyes are dim from grief. I have called on you daily, Yahweh. I have spread out
                  my hands to you</span>.<br/>
               			10. Do you show wonders to the dead? Do the departed spirits rise up and praise you?
               			<br/>
               			11. <span class="sorrow pleading anxiety color">Is your loving kindness declared in the grave?Or your faithfulness in Destruction</span>?<br/>
               			12. <span class="sorrow pleading anxiety color">Are your wonders made known in the dark?Or your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness</span>?<br/>
               			13. <span class="sorrow pleading color">But to you, Yahweh, I have cried. In the morning, my prayer comes before you</span>.<br/>
               			14. Yahweh, <span class="sorrow pleading anxiety color">why do you reject my soul?Why do you hide your face from me</span>?<br/>
               			15. <span class="sorrow pleading fear color">I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up. While I suffer your terrors, I am
                  distracted</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="anger pleading fear color">Your fierce wrath has gone over me. Your terrors have cut me off</span>.<br/>
               			17. They came around me like water all day long. They completely engulfed me.<br/>
               			18. <span class="sorrow pleading anxiety color">You have put lover and friend far from me,and my friends into darkness</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 89</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">I will sing of the loving kindness of Yahweh forever. With my mouth, I will make known
                  your faithfulness to all generations</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">I indeed declare, “Love stands firm forever. You established the heavens. Your faithfulness
                  is in them</span>.”<br/>
               			3. “I have made a covenant with my chosen one,I have sworn to David, my servant,<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise color">‘I will establish your offspring forever,and build up your throne to all generations.</span>’”
               			<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">The heavens will praise your wonders, Yahweh;your faithfulness also in the assembly
                  of the holy ones</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">For who in the skies can be compared to Yahweh? Who among the sons of the heavenly
                  beings is like Yahweh</span>,<br/>
               			7. <span class="contentment praise fear color">a very awesome God in the council of the holy ones,to be feared above all those who
                  are around him</span>?<br/>
               			8. Yahweh, God of Armies, who is a mighty one, like you?Yah, your faithfulness is around
               you.<br/>
               			9. You rule the pride of the sea. When its waves rise up, you calm them.<br/>
               			10. You have broken Rahab in pieces, like one of the slain. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">You have scattered your enemies with your mighty arm</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise color">The heavens are yours. The earth also is yours;the world and its fullness. You have
                  founded them</span>.<br/>
               			12. The north and the south, you have created them. <span class="joy praise color">Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="contentment praise color">You have a mighty arm. Your hand is strong, and your right hand is exalted</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Loving kindness and truth
                  go before your face</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="contentment praise color">Blessed are the people who learn to acclaim you. They walk in the light of your presence,
                  Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">In your name they rejoice all day. In your righteousness, they are exalted</span>.<br/>
               			17. For <span class="contentment praise color">you are the glory of their strength. In your favor, our horn will be exalted</span>.<br/>
               			18. For our shield belongs to Yahweh;our king to the Holy One of Israel.<br/>
               			19. Then <span class="contentment righteousness color">you spoke in vision to your saints,and said, “I have given strength to the warrior.
                  I have exalted a young man from the people</span>.<br/>
               			20. I have found David, my servant. I have anointed him with my holy oil,<br/>
               			21. with whom my hand shall be established. My arm will also strengthen him.<br/>
               			22. <span class="anger boasting righteousness color">No enemy will tax him. No wicked man will oppress him</span>.<br/>
               			23. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">I will beat down his adversaries before him,and strike those who hate him</span>.<br/>
               			24. <span class="contentment righteousness color">But my faithfulness and my loving kindness will be with him. In my name, his horn
                  will be exalted</span>.<br/>
               			25. I will set his hand also on the sea,and his right hand on the rivers.<br/>
               			26. He will call to me, ‘You are my Father,my God, and the rock of my salvation!’<br/>
               			27. I will also appoint him my firstborn,the highest of the kings of the earth.<br/>
               			28. <span class="contentment righteousness color">I will keep my loving kindness for him forever more. My covenant will stand firm with
                  him</span>.<br/>
               			29. I will also make his offspring endure forever,and his throne as the days of heaven.<br/>
               			30. If his children forsake my law,and don’t walk in my ordinances;<br/>
               			31. if they break my statutes,and don’t keep my commandments;<br/>
               			32. then <span class="anger violence color">I will punish their sin with the rod,and their iniquity with stripes</span>.<br/>
               			33. But <span class="contentment righteousness color">I will not completely take my loving kindness from him,nor allow my faithfulness to
                  fail</span>.<br/>
               			34. I will not break my covenant,nor alter what my lips have uttered.<br/>
               			35. Once I have sworn by my holiness,I will not lie to David.<br/>
               			36. His offspring will endure forever,his throne like the sun before me.<br/>
               			37. It will be established forever like the moon,the faithful witness in the sky.”
               			<br/>
               			38. But <span class="anger righteousness color">you have rejected and spurned. You have been angry with your anointed</span>.<br/>
               			39. <span class="anger righteousness color">You have renounced the covenant of your servant. You have defiled his crown in the
                  dust</span>.<br/>
               			40. You have broken down all his hedges. You have brought his strongholds to ruin.<br/>
               			41. <span class="anger righteousness color">All who pass by the way rob him. He has become a reproach to his neighbors</span>.<br/>
               			42. You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries. You have made all of his enemies
               rejoice.<br/>
               			43. Yes, <span class="contentment righteousness violence color">you turn back the edge of his sword,and haven’t supported him in battle</span>.<br/>
               			44. <span class="contentment righteousness color">You have ended his splendor,and thrown his throne down to the ground</span>.<br/>
               			45. <span class="contentment righteousness color">You have shortened the days of his youth. You have covered him with shame</span>. 
               			<br/>
               			46. <span class="fear anxiety color">How long, Yahweh?Will you hide yourself forever?Will your wrath burn like fire</span>?<br/>
               			47. <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">Remember how short my time is!For what vanity have you created all the children of
                  men</span>!<br/>
               			48. <span class="fear anxiety color">What man is he who shall live and not see death,who shall deliver his soul from the
                  power of Sheol</span>?
               			<br/>
               			49. Lord, <span class="fear anxiety color">where are your former loving kindnesses,which you swore to David in your faithfulness</span>?<br/>
               			50. Remember, Lord, the reproach of your servants,how <span class="anger righteousness color">I bear in my heart the taunts of all the mighty peoples</span>,<br/>
               			51. <span class="anger righteousness color">With which your enemies have mocked, Yahweh,with which they have mocked the footsteps
                  of your anointed one</span>.<br/>
               			52. <span class="contentment praise color">Blessed be Yahweh forever more. Amen, and Amen</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 90</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Lord, you have been our dwelling place for all generations.<br/>
               			2. Before the mountains were born,before you had formed the earth and the world,even
               from everlasting to everlasting, you are God.<br/>
               			3. You turn man to destruction, saying,“Return, you children of men.”<br/>
               			4. For a thousand years in your sight are just like yesterday when it is past,like a
               watch in the night.<br/>
               			5. You sweep them away as they sleep. In the morning they sprout like new grass.<br/>
               			6. In the morning it sprouts and springs up. By evening, it is withered and dry.<br/>
               			7. For <span class="anger fear color">we are consumed in your anger. We are troubled in your wrath</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="fear righteousness color">You have set our iniquities before you,our secret sins in the light of your presence</span>.<br/>
               			9. For <span class="anger anxiety fear color">all our days have passed away in your wrath. We bring our years to an end as a sigh</span>.<br/>
               			10. The days of our years are seventy,or even by reason of strength eighty years;yet their
               pride is but labor and sorrow,for it passes quickly, and we fly away.<br/>
               			11. <span class="anger anxiety color">Who knows the power of your anger,your wrath according to the fear that is due to
                  you</span>?<br/>
               			12. So <span class="anxiety petitioning color">teach us to count our days,that we may gain a heart of wisdom</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="fear anxiety petitioning color">Relent, Yahweh!How long?Have compassion on your servants</span>!<br/>
               			14. <span class="contentment praise petitioning color">Satisfy us in the morning with your loving kindness,that we may rejoice and be glad
                  all our days</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="contentment praise petitioning color">Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us,for as many years as we have
                  seen evil</span>.<br/>
               			16. Let your work appear to your servants;your glory to their children.<br/>
               			17. <span class="anxiety petitioning color">Let the favor of the Lord our God be on us;establish the work of our hands for us;yes,
                  establish the work of our hands</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 91</h2>
            <p>
               			1. He who dwells in the secret place of the Most Highwill rest in the shadow of the Almighty.<br/>
               			2. I will say of Yahweh, “<span class="contentment praise boasting color">He is my refuge and my fortress; my God, in whom I trust</span>.”<br/>
               			3. For <span class="contentment praise boasting color">he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler,and from the deadly pestilence</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">He will cover you with his feathers. Under his wings you will take refuge. His faithfulness
                  is your shield and rampart</span>.<br/>
               			5. You <span class="fear boasting color">shall not be afraid of the terror by night,nor of the arrow that flies by day</span>;<br/>
               			6. nor of the pestilence that walks in darkness,nor of the destruction that wastes at
               noonday.<br/>
               			7. <span class="fear boasting color">A thousand may fall at your side,and ten thousand at your right hand;but it will not
                  come near you</span>.<br/>
               			8. You will only look with your eyes,and see the recompense of the wicked.<br/>
               			9. Because <span class="contentment praise boasting color">you have made Yahweh your refuge,and the Most High your dwelling place</span>,<br/>
               			10. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">no evil shall happen to you,neither shall any plague come near your dwelling</span>.<br/>
               			11. For <span class="contentment praise boasting color">he will put his angels in charge of you,to guard you in all your ways</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">They will bear you up in their hands,so that you won’t dash your foot against a stone</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger boasting violence color">You will tread on the lion and cobra. You will trample the young lion and the serpent
                  underfoot</span>.<br/>
               			14. “Because <span class="contentment praise boasting color">he has set his love on me, therefore I will deliver him. I will set him on high, because
                  he has known my name</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">He will call on me, and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver
                  him, and honor him</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">I will satisfy him with long life,and show him my salvation</span>.”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 92</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">It is a good thing to give thanks to Yahweh,to sing praises to your name, Most High</span>;<br/>
               			2. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">to proclaim your loving kindness in the morning,and your faithfulness every night</span>,<br/>
               			3. with the ten-stringed lute, with the harp,and with the melody of the lyre.<br/>
               			4. For <span class="joy praise color">you, Yahweh, have made me glad through your work. I will triumph in the works of your
                  hands</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">How great are your works, Yahweh!Your thoughts are very deep</span>.<br/>
               			6. A senseless man doesn’t know,neither does a fool understand this:<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger righteousness boasting color">though the wicked spring up as the grass,and all the evildoers flourish,they will
                  be destroyed forever</span>.<br/>
               			8. But <span class="joy praise color">you, Yahweh, are on high forever more</span>.<br/>
               			9. For, behold, your enemies, Yahweh,for, behold, <span class="contentment righteousness color">your enemies shall perish. All the evildoers will be scattered</span>.<br/>
               			10. But you have exalted my horn like that of the wild ox. I am anointed with fresh oil.<br/>
               			11. <span class="anger righteousness anxiety color">My eye has also seen my enemies. My ears have heard of the wicked enemies who rise
                  up against me</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree. He will grow like a cedar in Lebanon</span>.<br/>
               			13. They are planted in Yahweh’s house. <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">They will flourish in our God’s courts</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">They will still produce fruit in old age. They will be full of sap and green</span>,<br/>
               			15. to show that <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">Yahweh is upright. He is my rock,and there is no unrighteousness in him</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 93</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh reigns!He is clothed with majesty!Yahweh is armed with strength</span>. The world also is established. It can’t be moved.<br/>
               			2. Your throne is established from long ago. You are from everlasting.<br/>
               			3. The floods have lifted up, Yahweh,the floods have lifted up their voice. The floods
               lift up their waves.<br/>
               			4. Above the voices of many waters,the mighty breakers of the sea,<span class="contentment praise boasting color">Yahweh on high is mighty</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">Your statutes stand firm. Holiness adorns your house,Yahweh</span>, forever more.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 94</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="anger petitioning boasting color">Yahweh, you God to whom vengeance belongs,you God to whom vengeance belongs, shine
                  out</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="anger petitioning righteousness color">Rise up, you judge of the earth. Pay back the proud what they deserve</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger anxiety color">Yahweh, how long will the wicked,how long will the wicked triumph</span>?<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness color">They pour out arrogant words. All the evildoers boast</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">They break your people in pieces, Yahweh,and afflict your heritage</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">They kill the widow and the alien,and murder the fatherless</span>.<br/>
               			7. They say, “Yah will not see,neither will Jacob’s God consider.”<br/>
               			8. Consider, <span class="anger righteousness color">you senseless among the people;you fools, when will you be wise</span>?<br/>
               			9. He who implanted the ear, won’t he hear?He who formed the eye, won’t he see?<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">He who disciplines the nations, won’t he punish?He who teaches man knows</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="anger righteousness color">Yahweh knows the thoughts of man,that they are futile</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">Blessed is the man whom you discipline, Yah,and teach out of your law</span>;<br/>
               			13. that you may give him rest from the days of adversity, until <span class="anger righteousness color">the pit is dug for the wicked</span>.<br/>
               			14. For <span class="contentment boasting color">Yahweh won’t reject his people,neither will he forsake his inheritance</span>.<br/>
               			15. For <span class="anger righteousness color">judgment will return to righteousness</span>. All the upright in heart shall follow it.<br/>
               			16. <span class="anger righteousness color">Who will rise up for me against the wicked?Who will stand up for me against the evildoers</span>?<br/>
               			17. <span class="contentment praise color">Unless Yahweh had been my help,my soul would have soon lived in silence</span>.<br/>
               			18. When I said, “My foot is slipping!” <span class="contentment praise color">Your loving kindness, Yahweh, held me up</span>.<br/>
               			19. In the multitude of my thoughts within me, <span class="contentment praise color">your comforts delight my soul</span>.<br/>
               			20. Shall the throne of wickedness have fellowship with you,which brings about mischief
               by statute?<br/>
               			21. <span class="anger righteousness color">They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous,and condemn the
                  innocent blood</span>.<br/>
               			22. But <span class="contentment boasting praise color">Yahweh has been my high tower,my God, the rock of my refuge</span>.<br/>
               			23. <span class="anger righteousness boasting color">He has brought on them their own iniquity,and will cut them off in their own wickedness.
                  Yahweh, our God, will cut them off</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 95</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Oh come, let’s sing to Yahweh. Let’s shout aloud to the rock of our salvation</span>!<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let’s come before his presence with thanksgiving. Let’s extol him with songs</span>!<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">For Yahweh is a great God,a great King above all gods</span>.<br/>
               			4. In his hand are the deep places of the earth. The heights of the mountains are also
               his.<br/>
               			5. The sea is his, and he made it. His hands formed the dry land.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Oh come, let’s worship and bow down. Let’s kneel before Yahweh, our Maker</span>,<br/>
               			7. for <span class="joy praise boasting color">he is our God. We are the people of his pasture,and the sheep in his care. Today,
                  oh that you would hear his voice</span>!<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Don’t harden your heart</span>, as at Meribah,as in the day of Massah in the wilderness,<br/>
               			9. when your fathers tempted me,tested me, and saw my work.<br/>
               			10. <span class="sorrow righteousness color">Forty long years I was grieved with that generation,and said, “It is a people that
                  errs in their heart. They have not known my ways</span>.”<br/>
               			11. Therefore <span class="anger righteousness color">I swore in my wrath,“They won’t enter into my rest</span>.”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 96</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Sing to Yahweh a new song!Sing to Yahweh, all the earth</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Sing to Yahweh!Bless his name!Proclaim his salvation from day to day</span>!<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Declare his glory among the nations,his marvelous works among all the peoples</span>.<br/>
               			4. For <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Yahweh is great, and greatly to be praised!He is to be feared above all gods</span>.<br/>
               			5. For all the gods of the peoples are idols,but Yahweh made the heavens.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise boasting color">Honor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Ascribe to Yahweh, you families of nations,ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Ascribe to Yahweh the glory due to his name. Bring an offering, and come into his
                  courts</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Worship Yahweh in holy array. Tremble before him, all the earth</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Say among the nations, “Yahweh reigns.”The world is also established. It can’t be
                  moved. He will judge the peoples with equity</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice. Let the sea roar, and its fullness</span>!<br/>
               			12. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let the field and all that is in it exult!Then all the trees of the woods shall sing
                  for joy</span><br/>
               			13. before Yahweh; for he comes,for <span class="contentment boasting righteousness color">he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness,the peoples
                  with his truth</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 97</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh reigns!Let the earth rejoice!Let the multitude of islands be glad</span>!<br/>
               			2. Clouds and darkness are around him. <span class="contentment righteousness color">Righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne</span>.<br/>
               			3. A fire goes before him,and burns up his adversaries on every side.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment boasting color">His lightning lights up the world. The earth sees, and trembles</span>.<br/>
               			5. The mountains melt like wax at the presence of Yahweh,at the presence of the Lord
               of the whole earth.<br/>
               			6. <span class="contentment praise boasting color">The heavens declare his righteousness. All the peoples have seen his glory</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Let all them be shamed who serve engraved images,who boast in their idols. Worship
                  him, all you gods</span>!<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise color">Zion heard and was glad. The daughters of Judah rejoiced</span>,because of your judgments, Yahweh.<br/>
               			9. For <span class="joy praise boasting color">you, Yahweh, are most high above all the earth. You are exalted far above all gods</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy praise boasting color">You who love Yahweh, hate evil. He preserves the souls of his saints. He delivers
                  them out of the hand of the wicked</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Light is sown for the righteous,and gladness for the upright in heart</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Be glad in Yahweh, you righteous people!Give thanks to his holy Name</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 98</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Sing to Yahweh a new song,for he has done marvelous things!His right hand and his
                  holy arm have worked salvation for him</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise boasting color">Yahweh has made known his salvation. He has openly shown his righteousness in the
                  sight of the nations</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise boasting color">He has remembered his loving kindness and his faithfulness toward the house of Israel.
                  All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Make a joyful noise to Yahweh, all the earth!Burst out and sing for joy, yes, sing
                  praises</span>!<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Sing praises to Yahweh with the harp,with the harp and the voice of melody</span>.<br/>
               			6. With trumpets and sound of the ram’s horn, <span class="joy praise petitioning color">make a joyful noise before the King, Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let the sea roar with its fullness;the world, and those who dwell therein</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let the rivers clap their hands. Let the mountains sing for joy together</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Let them sing before Yahweh,for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world
                  with righteousness,and the peoples with equity</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 99</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh reigns! Let the peoples tremble. He sits enthroned among the cherubim. Let
                  the earth be moved</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is great in Zion. He is high above all the peoples</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">Let them praise your great and awesome name. He is Holy</span>!<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise color">The King’s strength also loves justice. You establish equity. You execute justice
                  and righteousness in Jacob</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">Exalt Yahweh our God. Worship at his footstool. He is Holy</span>!<br/>
               			6. Moses and Aaron were among his priests,Samuel was among those who call on his name.
               They called on Yahweh, and he answered them.<br/>
               			7. He spoke to them in the pillar of cloud. They kept his testimonies,the statute that
               he gave them.<br/>
               			8. You answered them, Yahweh our God. <span class="contentment praise color">You are a God who forgave them</span>,although <span class="anger righteousness color">you took vengeance for their doings</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Exalt Yahweh, our God. Worship at his holy hill,for Yahweh, our God, is holy</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 100</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy petitioning praise color">Shout for joy to Yahweh, all you lands</span>!<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy petitioning praise color">Serve Yahweh with gladness. Come before his presence with singing</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Know that Yahweh, he is God. It is he who has made us, and we are his. We are his
                  people, and the sheep of his pasture</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy petitioning praise color">Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise. Give thanks
                  to him, and bless his name</span>.<br/>
               			5. For <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is good. His loving kindness endures forever, his faithfulness to all generations</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 101</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">I will sing of loving kindness and justice. To you, Yahweh, I will sing praises</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="anxiety righteousness pleading color">I will be careful to live a blameless life. When will you come to me? I will walk
                  within my house with a blameless heart</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger righteousness color">I will set no vile thing before my eyes. I hate the deeds of faithless men. They will
                  not cling to me</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness color">A perverse heart will be far from me. I will have nothing to do with evil</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger righteousness color">I will silence whoever secretly slanders his neighbor. I won’t tolerate one who is
                  arrogant and conceited</span>.<br/>
               			6. My eyes will be on the faithful of the land,that they may dwell with me. He who walks
               in a perfect way,he will serve me.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger righteousness color">He who practices deceit won’t dwell within my house. He who speaks falsehood won’t
                  be established before my eyes</span>.<br/>
               			8. Morning by morning, <span class="anger righteousness color">I will destroy all the wicked of the land, to cut off all the workers of iniquity
                  from Yahweh’s city</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 102</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">Hear my prayer, Yahweh!Let my cry come to you</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">Don’t hide your face from me in the day of my distress. Turn your ear to me. Answer
                  me quickly in the day when I call</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear anxiety color">For my days consume away like smoke. My bones are burned as a torch</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="fear anxiety color">My heart is blighted like grass, and withered,for I forget to eat my bread</span>.<br/>
               			5. By reason of the voice of my groaning,my bones stick to my skin.<br/>
               			6. I am like a pelican of the wilderness. I have become as an owl of the waste places.<br/>
               			7. I watch, and have become like a sparrow that is alone on the housetop.<br/>
               			8. <span class="fear anxiety color">My enemies reproach me all day. Those who are mad at me use my name as a curse</span>.<br/>
               			9. For I have eaten ashes like bread,and mixed my drink with tears,<br/>
               			10. <span class="fear anxiety violence color">because of your indignation and your wrath;for you have taken me up and thrown me
                  away</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="anxiety fear color">My days are like a long shadow. I have withered like grass</span>.<br/>
               			12. But <span class="contentment praise color">you, Yahweh, will remain forever;your renown endures to all generations</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="contentment praise pleading color">You will arise and have mercy on Zion;for it is time to have pity on her. Yes, the
                  set time has come</span>.<br/>
               			14. For your servants take pleasure in her stones,and have pity on her dust.<br/>
               			15. So <span class="fear fear color">the nations will fear Yahweh’s name;all the kings of the earth your glory</span>.<br/>
               			16. For <span class="contentment praise color">Yahweh has built up Zion. He has appeared in his glory</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="contentment praise color">He has responded to the prayer of the destitute,and has not despised their prayer</span>.<br/>
               			18. This will be written for the generation to come. <span class="contentment praise color">A people which will be created will praise Yah</span>.<br/>
               			19. For he has looked down from the height of his sanctuary. From heaven, Yahweh saw the
               earth;<br/>
               			20. to hear the groans of the prisoner;to free those who are condemned to death;<br/>
               			21. <span class="contentment praise color">that men may declare Yahweh’s name in Zion,and his praise in Jerusalem</span>;<br/>
               			22. when the peoples are gathered together,the kingdoms, to serve Yahweh.<br/>
               			23. <span class="fear anxiety color">He weakened my strength along the course. He shortened my days</span>.<br/>
               			24. I said, “<span class="fear anxiety pleading color">My God, don’t take me away in the middle of my days</span>. Your years are throughout all generations.<br/>
               			25. <span class="joy praise color">Of old, you laid the foundation of the earth. The heavens are the work of your hands</span>.<br/>
               			26. They will perish, but <span class="contentment praise color">you will endure. Yes, all of them will wear out like a garment. You will change them
                  like a cloak, and they will be changed</span>.<br/>
               			27. But you are the same. <span class="contentment praise color">Your years will have no end</span>.<br/>
               			28. The children of your servants will continue. Their offspring will be established before
               you.”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 103</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Praise Yahweh, my soul!All that is within me, praise his holy name</span>!<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">Praise Yahweh, my soul,and don’t forget all his benefits</span>;<br/>
               			3. <span class="contentment praise color">who forgives all your sins;who heals all your diseases</span>;<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment praise color">who redeems your life from destruction;who crowns you with loving kindness and tender
                  mercies</span>;<br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment praise color">who satisfies your desire with good things,so that your youth is renewed like the
                  eagle’s</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">Yahweh executes righteous acts,and justice for all who are oppressed</span>.<br/>
               			7. He made known his ways to Moses, his deeds to the children of Israel.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is merciful and gracious,slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise color">He will not always accuse;neither will he stay angry forever</span>.<br/>
               			10. He has not dealt with us according to our sins,nor repaid us for our iniquities.<br/>
               			11. For as the heavens are high above the earth,so <span class="joy praise color">great is his loving kindness toward those who fear him</span>.<br/>
               			12. As far as the east is from the west,so far has <span class="joy praise color">he removed our transgressions from us</span>.<br/>
               			13. Like a father has compassion on his children,so <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh has compassion on those who fear him</span>.<br/>
               			14. For he knows how we are made. He remembers that we are dust.<br/>
               			15. As for man, his days are like grass. As a flower of the field, so he flourishes.<br/>
               			16. For the wind passes over it, and it is gone. Its place remembers it no more.<br/>
               			17. But <span class="joy praise righteousness color">Yahweh’s loving kindness is from everlasting to everlasting with those who fear him,his
                  righteousness to children’s children</span>;<br/>
               			18. to those who keep his covenant,to those who remember to obey his precepts.<br/>
               			19. Yahweh has established his throne in the heavens. His kingdom rules over all.<br/>
               			20. <span class="joy praise color">Praise Yahweh, you angels of his,who are mighty in strength, who fulfill his word,obeying
                  the voice of his word</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="joy praise color">Praise Yahweh, all you armies of his,you servants of his, who do his pleasure</span>.<br/>
               			22. <span class="joy praise color">Praise Yahweh, all you works of his,in all places of his dominion. Praise Yahweh,
                  my soul</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 104</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Bless Yahweh, my soul. Yahweh, my God, you are very great. You are clothed with honor
                  and majesty</span>.<br/>
               			2. He covers himself with light as with a garment. He stretches out the heavens like
               a curtain.<br/>
               			3. He lays the beams of his rooms in the waters. He makes the clouds his chariot. He
               walks on the wings of the wind.<br/>
               			4. He makes his messengers winds,and his servants flames of fire.<br/>
               			5. He laid the foundations of the earth,that it should not be moved forever.<br/>
               			6. You covered it with the deep as with a cloak. The waters stood above the mountains.<br/>
               			7. At your rebuke they fled. At the voice of your thunder they hurried away.<br/>
               			8. The mountains rose,the valleys sank down,to the place which you had assigned to them.<br/>
               			9. You have set a boundary that they may not pass over,that they don’t turn again to
               cover the earth.<br/>
               			10. He sends springs into the valleys. They run among the mountains.<br/>
               			11. They give drink to every animal of the field. The wild donkeys quench their thirst.<br/>
               			12. The birds of the sky nest by them. They sing among the branches.<br/>
               			13. He waters the mountains from his rooms. <span class="joy praise color">The earth is filled with the fruit of your works</span>.<br/>
               			14. He causes the grass to grow for the livestock,and plants for man to cultivate,that
               he may produce food out of the earth:<br/>
               			15. wine that makes the heart of man glad,oil to make his face to shine,and bread that
               strengthens man’s heart.<br/>
               			16. Yahweh’s trees are well watered,the cedars of Lebanon, which he has planted;<br/>
               			17. where the birds make their nests. The stork makes its home in the cypress trees.<br/>
               			18. The high mountains are for the wild goats. The rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers.<br/>
               			19. He appointed the moon for seasons. The sun knows when to set.<br/>
               			20. You make darkness, and it is night,in which all the animals of the forest prowl.<br/>
               			21. The young lions roar after their prey,and seek their food from God.<br/>
               			22. The sun rises, and they steal away,and lie down in their dens.<br/>
               			23. Man goes out to his work,to his labor until the evening.<br/>
               			24. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh, how many are your works!In wisdom, you have made them all. The earth is full
                  of your riches</span>.<br/>
               			25. There is the sea, great and wide,in which are innumerable living things,both small
               and large animals.<br/>
               			26. There the ships go,and leviathan, whom you formed to play there.<br/>
               			27. These all wait for you,that you may give them their food in due season.<br/>
               			28. You give to them; they gather. You open your hand; <span class="contentment praise color">they are satisfied with good</span>.<br/>
               			29. You hide your face: they are troubled;you take away their breath: they die, and return
               to the dust.<br/>
               			30. You send out your Spirit and they are created. You renew the face of the ground.<br/>
               			31. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let Yahweh’s glory endure forever. Let Yahweh rejoice in his works</span>.<br/>
               			32. <span class="fear praise color">He looks at the earth, and it trembles. He touches the mountains, and they smoke</span>.<br/>
               			33. <span class="joy praise color">I will sing to Yahweh as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have
                  any being</span>.<br/>
               			34. <span class="joy praise color">Let my meditation be sweet to him. I will rejoice in Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			35. <span class="anger righteousness praise color">Let sinners be consumed out of the earth. Let the wicked be no more. Bless Yahweh,
                  my soul. Praise Yah</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 105</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Give thanks to Yahweh! Call on his name!Make his doings known among the peoples</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Sing to him, sing praises to him!Tell of all his marvelous works</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Glory in his holy name. Let the heart of those who seek Yahweh rejoice</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment praise petitioning color">Seek Yahweh and his strength. Seek his face forever more</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Remember his marvelous works that he has done;his wonders, and the judgments of his
                  mouth</span>,<br/>
               			6. you offspring of Abraham, his servant,you children of Jacob, his chosen ones.<br/>
               			7. He is Yahweh, our God. His judgments are in all the earth.<br/>
               			8. He has remembered his covenant forever,the word which he commanded to a thousand generations,<br/>
               			9. the covenant which he made with Abraham,his oath to Isaac,<br/>
               			10. and confirmed it to Jacob for a statute;to Israel for an everlasting covenant,<br/>
               			11. saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan,the lot of your inheritance;”<br/>
               			12. when they were but a few men in number,yes, very few, and foreigners in it.<br/>
               			13. They went about from nation to nation,from one kingdom to another people.<br/>
               			14. He allowed no one to do them wrong. Yes, he reproved kings for their sakes,<br/>
               			15. <span class="anger righteousness color">“Don’t touch my anointed ones! Do my prophets no harm!”</span><br/>
               			16. <span class="anger violence color">He called for a famine on the land. He destroyed the food supplies</span>.<br/>
               			17. He sent a man before them. Joseph was sold for a slave.<br/>
               			18. They bruised his feet with shackles. His neck was locked in irons,<br/>
               			19. until the time that his word happened,and Yahweh’s word proved him true.<br/>
               			20. The king sent and freed him;even the ruler of peoples, and let him go free.<br/>
               			21. He made him lord of his house,and ruler of all of his possessions;<br/>
               			22. to discipline his princes at his pleasure,and to teach his elders wisdom.<br/>
               			23. Israel also came into Egypt. Jacob lived in the land of Ham.<br/>
               			24. He increased his people greatly,and made them stronger than their adversaries.<br/>
               			25. He turned their heart to hate his people,to conspire against his servants.<br/>
               			26. He sent Moses, his servant,and Aaron, whom he had chosen.<br/>
               			27. <span class="joy praise color">They performed miracles among them,and wonders in the land of Ham</span>.<br/>
               			28. He sent darkness, and made it dark. They didn’t rebel against his words.<br/>
               			29. <span class="fear violence color">He turned their waters into blood,and killed their fish</span>.<br/>
               			30. <span class="fear violence color">Their land swarmed with frogs,even in the rooms of their kings</span>.<br/>
               			31. <span class="fear violence color">He spoke, and swarms of flies came,and lice in all their borders</span>.<br/>
               			32. <span class="fear violence color">He gave them hail for rain,with lightning in their land</span>.<br/>
               			33. He struck their vines and also their fig trees,and shattered the trees of their country.<br/>
               			34. He spoke, and the locusts came,and the grasshoppers, without number,<br/>
               			35. ate up every plant in their land;and ate up the fruit of their ground.<br/>
               			36. <span class="fear violence color">He struck also all the firstborn in their land</span>,the first fruits of all their manhood.<br/>
               			37. He brought them out with silver and gold. There was not one feeble person among his
               tribes.<br/>
               			38. Egypt was glad when they departed,for the fear of them had fallen on them.<br/>
               			39. He spread a cloud for a covering,fire to give light in the night.<br/>
               			40. They asked, and he brought quails,and satisfied them with the bread of the sky.<br/>
               			41. He opened the rock, and waters gushed out. They ran as a river in the dry places.<br/>
               			42. For he remembered his holy word,and Abraham, his servant.<br/>
               			43. <span class="joy praise color">He brought his people out with joy,his chosen with singing</span>.<br/>
               			44. He gave them the lands of the nations. They took the labor of the peoples in possession,<br/>
               			45. that they might keep his statutes,and observe his laws. <span class="joy praise color">Praise Yah</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 106</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise Yahweh!Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,for his loving kindness endures
                  forever</span>.<br/>
               			2. Who can utter the mighty acts of Yahweh,or <span class="contentment praise color">fully declare all his praise</span>?<br/>
               			3. <span class="contentment praise color">Blessed are those who keep justice. Blessed is one who does what is right at all times</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Remember me, Yahweh, with the favor that you show to your people. Visit me with your
                  salvation</span>,<br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment praise color">that I may see the prosperity of your chosen,that I may rejoice in the gladness of
                  your nation,that I may glory with your inheritance</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger righteousness color">We have sinned with our fathers. We have committed iniquity. We have done wickedly</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger righteousness color">Our fathers didn’t understand your wonders in Egypt. They didn’t remember the multitude
                  of your loving kindnesses,but were rebellious at the sea, even at the Red Sea</span>.<br/>
               			8. Nevertheless <span class="contentment boasting color">he saved them for his name’s sake,that he might make his mighty power known</span>.<br/>
               			9. He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up;so he led them through the depths,
               as through a desert.<br/>
               			10. <span class="contentment boasting color">He saved them from the hand of him who hated them,and redeemed them from the hand
                  of the enemy</span>.<br/>
               			11. The waters covered their adversaries. There was not one of them left.<br/>
               			12. Then <span class="contentment praise color">they believed his words. They sang his praise</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger righteousness color">They soon forgot his works. They didn’t wait for his counsel</span>,<br/>
               			14. but gave in to craving in the desert,and tested God in the wasteland.<br/>
               			15. He gave them their request,but sent leanness into their soul.<br/>
               			16. They envied Moses also in the camp,and Aaron, Yahweh’s saint.<br/>
               			17. The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan,and covered the company of Abiram.<br/>
               			18. A fire was kindled in their company. <span class="anger righteousness color">The flame burned up the wicked</span>.<br/>
               			19. <span class="anger righteousness color">They made a calf in Horeb,and worshiped a molten image</span>.<br/>
               			20. <span class="anger righteousness color">Thus they exchanged their glory for an image of a bull that eats grass</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="anger righteousness color">They forgot God, their Savior,who had done great things in Egypt</span>,<br/>
               			22. wondrous works in the land of Ham,and awesome things by the Red Sea.<br/>
               			23. Therefore <span class="anger righteousness color">he said that he would destroy them,had Moses, his chosen, not stood before him in
                  the breach,to turn away his wrath, so that he wouldn’t destroy them</span>.<br/>
               			24. Yes, <span class="anger righteousness color">they despised the pleasant land. They didn’t believe his word</span>,<br/>
               			25. <span class="anger righteousness color">but murmured in their tents,and didn’t listen to Yahweh’s voice</span>.<br/>
               			26. Therefore <span class="anger righteousness color">he swore to them that he would overthrow them in the wilderness</span>,<br/>
               			27. that <span class="anger righteousness color">he would overthrow their offspring among the nations,and scatter them in the lands</span>.<br/>
               			28. They joined themselves also to Baal Peor,and ate the sacrifices of the dead.<br/>
               			29. Thus <span class="anger righteousness color">they provoked him to anger with their deeds</span>. The plague broke in on them.<br/>
               			30. Then Phinehas stood up, and executed judgment,so the plague was stopped.<br/>
               			31. That was credited to him for righteousness,for all generations to come.<br/>
               			32. <span class="anger righteousness color">They angered him also at the waters of Meribah</span>,so that Moses was troubled for their sakes;<br/>
               			33. because <span class="anger righteousness color">they were rebellious against his spirit,he spoke rashly with his lips</span>.<br/>
               			34. They didn’t destroy the peoples,as Yahweh commanded them,<br/>
               			35. but mixed themselves with the nations,and learned their works.<br/>
               			36. <span class="anger righteousness color">They served their idols,which became a snare to them</span>.<br/>
               			37. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">Yes, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons</span>.<br/>
               			38. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">They shed innocent blood,even the blood of their sons and of their daughters,whom
                  they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan. The land was polluted with blood</span>.<br/>
               			39. Thus <span class="anger righteousness color">they were defiled with their works,and prostituted themselves in their deeds</span>.<br/>
               			40. Therefore <span class="anger righteousness color">Yahweh burned with anger against his people. He abhorred his inheritance</span>.<br/>
               			41. He gave them into the hand of the nations. <span class="anger righteousness color">Those who hated them ruled over them</span>.<br/>
               			42. <span class="anger righteousness color">Their enemies also oppressed them. They were brought into subjection under their hand</span>.<br/>
               			43. He rescued them many times,but <span class="anger righteousness color">they were rebellious in their counsel,and were brought low in their iniquity</span>.<br/>
               			44. <span class="fear praise color">Nevertheless he regarded their distress,when he heard their cry</span>.<br/>
               			45. He remembered for them his covenant,and repented according to the multitude of his
               loving kindnesses.<br/>
               			46. He made them also to be pitied by all those who carried them captive.<br/>
               			47. <span class="joy praise color">Save us, Yahweh, our God,gather us from among the nations,to give thanks to your holy
                  name,to triumph in your praise</span>!<br/>
               			48. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel,from everlasting even to everlasting!Let all
                  the people say, “Amen.”Praise Yah</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 107</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment praise color">Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,for his loving kindness endures forever</span>.<br/>
               			2. Let the redeemed by Yahweh say so,whom he has redeemed from the hand of the adversary,<br/>
               			3. And gathered out of the lands,from the east and from the west,from the north and from
               the south.<br/>
               			4. They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way. They found no city to live in.<br/>
               			5. Hungry and thirsty,their soul fainted in them.<br/>
               			6. Then <span class="sorrow boasting color">they cried to Yahweh in their trouble,and he delivered them out of their distresses</span>,<br/>
               			7. he led them also by a straight way,that they might go to a city to live in.<br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment praise color">Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness,for his wonderful deeds to the children
                  of men</span>!<br/>
               			9. For <span class="contentment praise color">he satisfies the longing soul. He fills the hungry soul with good</span>.<br/>
               			10. Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death,being bound in affliction and iron,<br/>
               			11. because <span class="anger righteousness color">they rebelled against the words of God,and condemned the counsel of the Most High</span>.<br/>
               			12. Therefore <span class="anger righteousness color">he brought down their heart with labor. They fell down, and there was no one to help</span>.<br/>
               			13. Then <span class="sorrow boasting color">they cried to Yahweh in their trouble,and he saved them out of their distresses</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="contentment praise color">He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death,and broke away their chains</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="contentment praise color">Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness,for his wonderful deeds to the children
                  of men</span>!<br/>
               			16. For he has broken the gates of bronze,and cut through bars of iron.<br/>
               			17. <span class="anger righteousness color">Fools are afflicted because of their disobedience,and because of their iniquities</span>.<br/>
               			18. Their soul abhors all kinds of food. They draw near to the gates of death.<br/>
               			19. Then <span class="sorrow boasting color">they cry to Yahweh in their trouble,he saves them out of their distresses</span>.<br/>
               			20. <span class="joy praise color">He sends his word, and heals them,and delivers them from their graves</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="joy petitioning praise color">Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness,for his wonderful deeds to the children
                  of men</span>!<br/>
               			22. <span class="joy petitioning praise color">Let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving,and declare his deeds with singing</span>.<br/>
               			23. Those who go down to the sea in ships,who do business in great waters;<br/>
               			24. These see Yahweh’s deeds,and his wonders in the deep.<br/>
               			25. For he commands, and raises the stormy wind,which lifts up its waves.<br/>
               			26. They mount up to the sky; they go down again to the depths. Their soul melts away
               because of trouble.<br/>
               			27. They reel back and forth, and stagger like a drunken man,and are at their wits’ end.<br/>
               			28. Then <span class="sorrow praise anxiety color">they cry to Yahweh in their trouble,and he brings them out of their distress</span>.<br/>
               			29. He makes the storm a calm,so that its waves are still.<br/>
               			30. Then <span class="joy praise color">they are glad because it is calm,so he brings them to their desired haven</span>.<br/>
               			31. <span class="contentment praise petitioning color">Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness,for his wonderful deeds for the children
                  of men</span>!<br/>
               			32. <span class="contentment praise petitioning color">Let them exalt him also in the assembly of the people,and praise him in the seat of
                  the elders</span>.<br/>
               			33. He turns rivers into a desert,water springs into a thirsty ground,<br/>
               			34. and a fruitful land into a salt waste,for the wickedness of those who dwell in it.<br/>
               			35. He turns a desert into a pool of water,and a dry land into water springs.<br/>
               			36. There he makes the hungry live,that they may prepare a city to live in,<br/>
               			37. sow fields, plant vineyards,and reap the fruits of increase.<br/>
               			38. <span class="contentment praise color">He blesses them also, so that they are multiplied greatly. He doesn’t allow their
                  livestock to decrease</span>.<br/>
               			39. Again, <span class="sorrow anxiety color">they are diminished and bowed downthrough oppression, trouble, and sorrow</span>.<br/>
               			40. He pours contempt on princes,and causes them to wander in a trackless waste.<br/>
               			41. Yet <span class="contentment praise color">he lifts the needy out of their affliction,and increases their families like a flock</span>.<br/>
               			42. The upright will see it, and be glad. <span class="anger righteousness color">All the wicked will shut their mouths</span>.<br/>
               			43. Whoever is wise will pay attention to these things. They will <span class="contentment petitioning praise color">consider the loving kindnesses of Yahweh</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 108</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment praise color">My heart is steadfast, God. I will sing and I will make music with my soul</span>.<br/>
               			2. Wake up, harp and lyre!I will wake up the dawn.<br/>
               			3. <span class="contentment praise color">I will give thanks to you, Yahweh, among the nations. I will sing praises to you among
                  the peoples</span>.<br/>
               			4. For <span class="contentment praise color">your loving kindness is great above the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the
                  skies</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">Be exalted, God, above the heavens!Let your glory be over all the earth</span>.<br/>
               			6. That your beloved may be delivered,save with your right hand, and answer us.<br/>
               			7. God has spoken from his sanctuary: “In triumph,I will divide Shechem, and measure
               out the valley of Succoth.<br/>
               			8. Gilead is mine. Manasseh is mine. Ephraim also is my helmet. Judah is my scepter.<br/>
               			9. Moab is my wash pot. I will toss my sandal on Edom. I will shout over Philistia.”<br/>
               			10. Who will bring me into the fortified city?Who has led me to Edom?<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear anxiety color">Haven’t you rejected us, God?You don’t go out, God, with our armies</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="fear pleading color">Give us help against the enemy,for the help of man is vain</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="contentment boasting righteousness color">Through God, we will do valiantly. For it is he who will tread down our enemies</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 109</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear pleading anxiety color">God of my praise, don’t remain silent</span>,<br/>
               			2. <span class="anger righteousness color">for they have opened the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of deceit against me. They
                  have spoken to me with a lying tongue</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger righteousness color">They have also surrounded me with words of hatred,and fought against me without a
                  cause</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness color">In return for my love, they are my adversaries; but I am in prayer</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger righteousness color">They have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Set a wicked man over him. Let an adversary stand at his right hand</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">When he is judged, let him come out guilty. Let his prayer be turned into sin</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Let his days be few. Let another take his office</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Let his children be fatherless,and his wife a widow</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Let his children be wandering beggars. Let them be sought from their ruins</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Let the creditor seize all that he has. Let strangers plunder the fruit of his labor</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Let there be no one to extend kindness to him, neither let there be anyone to have
                  pity on his fatherless children</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Let his posterity be cut off. In the generation following let their name be blotted
                  out</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered by Yahweh. Don’t let the sin of his
                  mother be blotted out</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Let them be before Yahweh continually, that he may cut off their memory from the earth</span>;<br/>
               			16. because <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">he didn’t remember to show kindness,but persecuted the poor and needy man,the broken
                  in heart, to kill them</span>.<br/>
               			17. <span class="anger righteousness color">Yes, he loved cursing, and it came to him. He didn’t delight in blessing, and it was
                  far from him</span>.<br/>
               			18. <span class="anger righteousness color">He clothed himself also with cursing as with his garment</span>. It came into his inward parts like water,like oil into his bones.<br/>
               			19. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Let it be to him as the clothing with which he covers himself,for the belt that is
                  always around him</span>.<br/>
               			20. <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">This is the reward of my adversaries from Yahweh,of those who speak evil against my
                  soul</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="contentment praise pleading color">But deal with me, Yahweh the Lord, for your name’s sake,because your loving kindness
                  is good, deliver me</span>;<br/>
               			22. for <span class="fear anxiety color">I am poor and needy. My heart is wounded within me</span>.<br/>
               			23. I fade away like an evening shadow. I am shaken off like a locust.<br/>
               			24. <span class="anxiety fear color">My knees are weak through fasting. My body is thin and lacks fat</span>.<br/>
               			25. I have also become a reproach to them. When they see me, they shake their head.<br/>
               			26. <span class="fear anxiety pleading color">Help me, Yahweh, my God. Save me according to your loving kindness</span>;<br/>
               			27. <span class="joy praise color">that they may know that this is your hand;that you, Yahweh, have done it</span>.<br/>
               			28. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">They may curse, but you bless. When they arise, they will be shamed,but your servant
                  shall rejoice</span>.<br/>
               			29. <span class="anger righteousness petitioning color">Let my adversaries be clothed with dishonor. Let them cover themselves with their
                  own shame as with a robe</span>.<br/>
               			30. <span class="contentment praise color">I will give great thanks to Yahweh with my mouth. Yes, I will praise him among the
                  multitude</span>.<br/>
               			31. For <span class="contentment praise color">he will stand at the right hand of the needy, to save him from those who judge his
                  soul</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 110</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Yahweh says to my Lord, “<span class="anger righteousness violence color">Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool for your feet</span>.”<br/>
               			2. Yahweh will send out the rod of your strength out of Zion. Rule among your enemies.<br/>
               			3. Your people offer themselves willingly in the day of your power, in holy array. Out
               of the womb of the morning, you have the dew of your youth.<br/>
               			4. Yahweh has sworn, and will not change his mind: “You are a priest forever in the order
               of Melchizedek.”<br/>
               			5. The Lord is at your right hand. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">He will crush kings in the day of his wrath</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">He will judge among the nations. He will heap up dead bodies. He will crush the ruler
                  of the whole earth</span>.<br/>
               			7. He will drink of the brook on the way; therefore he will lift up his head.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 111</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Praise Yah! I will give thanks to Yahweh with my whole heart,in the council of the
                  upright, and in the congregation</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh’s works are great, pondered by all those who delight in them</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="contentment praise righteousness color">His work is honor and majesty. His righteousness endures forever</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment praise color">He has caused his wonderful works to be remembered. Yahweh is gracious and merciful</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="fear praise color">He has given food to those who fear him. He always remembers his covenant</span>.<br/>
               			6. He has shown his people the power of his works, in giving them the heritage of the
               nations.<br/>
               			7. <span class="contentment praise color">The works of his hands are truth and justice. All his precepts are sure</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="praise righteousness color">They are established forever and ever. They are done in truth and uprightness</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="contentment praise color">He has sent redemption to his people. He has ordained his covenant forever. His name
                  is holy and awesome</span>!<br/>
               			10. <span class="fear praise color">The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of wisdom. All those who do his work have a good
                  understanding. His praise endures forever</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 112</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise Yah! Blessed is the man who fears Yahweh, who delights greatly in his commandments</span>.<br/>
               			2. His offspring will be mighty in the land. The generation of the upright will be blessed.<br/>
               			3. Wealth and riches are in his house. <span class="contentment righteousness color">His righteousness endures forever</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment righteousness boasting color">Light dawns in the darkness for the upright, gracious, merciful, and righteous</span>.<br/>
               			5. It is well with the man who deals graciously and lends. He will maintain his cause
               in judgment.<br/>
               			6. <span class="fear boasting righteousness color">For he will never be shaken. The righteous will be remembered forever</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="fear boasting color">He will not be afraid of evil news. His heart is steadfast, trusting in Yahweh</span>.<br/>
               			8. His heart is established. <span class="fear boasting color">He will not be afraid in the end when he sees his adversaries</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="contentment praise color">He has dispersed, he has given to the poor</span>. <span class="contentment boasting righteousness color">His righteousness endures forever. His horn will be exalted with honor</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger righteousness color">The wicked will see it, and be grieved. He shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away.
                  The desire of the wicked will perish</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 113</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Praise Yah! Praise, you servants of Yahweh,praise Yahweh’s name</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed be Yahweh’s name,from this time forward and forever more</span>.<br/>
               			3. From the rising of the sun to its going down, <span class="contentment praise color">Yahweh’s name is to be praised</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="contentment boasting color">Yahweh is high above all nations, his glory above the heavens</span>.<br/>
               			5. Who is like Yahweh, our God, who has his seat on high,<br/>
               			6. Who stoops down to see in heaven and in the earth?<br/>
               			7. He raises up the poor out of the dust. Lifts up the needy from the ash heap;<br/>
               			8. that he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise color">He settles the barren woman in her home, as a joyful mother of children. Praise Yah</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 114</h2>
            <p>
               			1. When Israel went out of Egypt,the house of Jacob from a people of foreign language;<br/>
               			2. Judah became his sanctuary, Israel his dominion.<br/>
               			3. <span class="fear anxiety color">The sea saw it, and fled</span>. The Jordan was driven back.<br/>
               			4. The mountains skipped like rams, the little hills like lambs.<br/>
               			5. What was it, you sea, that you fled? You Jordan, that you turned back?<br/>
               			6. You mountains, that you skipped like rams; you little hills, like lambs?<br/>
               			7. <span class="fear anxiety color">Tremble, you earth, at the presence of the Lord,at the presence of the God of Jacob</span>,<br/>
               			8. who turned the rock into a pool of water,the flint into a spring of waters.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 115</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Not to us, Yahweh, not to us,but <span class="joy  color">to
                  				your name give glory</span>,for your <span class="joy  color">loving
                  					kindness</span>, and for your truth’s sake.<br/>
               			2. Why should the nations say,“Where is their God, now?”<br/>
               			3. But our God is in the heavens. He does whatever he
               				pleases.<br/>
               			4. Their idols are silver and gold,the work of men’s hands.<br/>
               			5. They have mouths, but they don’t speak. They have eyes, but
               				they don’t see.<br/>
               			6. They have ears, but they don’t hear. They have noses, but they
               				don’t smell.<br/>
               			7. They have hands, but they don’t feel. They have feet, but they
               				don’t walk,neither do they speak through their throat.<br/>
               			8. Those who make them will be like them;yes, everyone who trusts
               				in them.<br/>
               			9. Israel, <span class=" petitioning color">trust in
                  				Yahweh!</span>He is their help and their shield.<br/>
               			10. House of Aaron, <span class=" petitioning color">trust in
                  				Yahweh!</span>He is their help and their shield.<br/>
               			11. <span class="fear  color">You who fear Yahweh</span>,
               				<span class=" petitioning color">trust in Yahweh!</span>He is their help and
               				their shield.<br/>
               			12. 
               				<span class="joy  color">Yahweh remembers us.</span>
               				<span class="joy  color">He will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel. He will
                  					bless the house of Aaron.</span>
               			<br/>
               			13. <span class="joy  color">He will bless those who <span class="fear  color">fear</span> Yahweh,both small and great</span>.<br/>
               			14. <span class="joy petitioning color">May Yahweh increase
                  				you more and more,you and your children</span>.<br/>
               			15. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed are you by
                  				Yahweh</span>,who made heaven and earth.<br/>
               			16. The heavens are the heavens of Yahweh;but the earth has he
               				given to the children of men.<br/>
               			17. The dead don’t praise Yah,neither any who go down into
               				silence;<br/>
               			18. 
               				<span class="joy praise color">But we will bless Yah,from this time forward
                  					and forever more. Praise Yah!</span>
               			
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 116</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">I love Yahweh</span>,
               				because he listens to my voice,and my cries for mercy.<br/>
               			2. Because he has turned his ear to me,therefore I will call on
               				him as long as I live.<br/>
               			3. 
               				<span class="sorrow  color">The cords of death surrounded me,the pains of Sheol got a
                  					hold of me. I found trouble and sorrow.</span>
               			<br/>
               			4. Then I called on Yahweh’s name:<span class="sorrow pleading color">“Yahweh, I beg you, deliver my soul.”</span><br/>
               			5. 
               				<span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is Gracious and righteous. Yes, our God
                  					is merciful.</span>
               			<br/>
               			6. Yahweh preserves the simple. I was brought low, and he saved
               				me.<br/>
               			7. 
               				<span class="contentment praise color">Return to your rest, my soul,for
                  					Yahweh has dealt bountifully with you.</span>
               			<br/>
               			8. For you have delivered my soul from death,my eyes from
               				tears,and my feet from falling.<br/>
               			9. I will walk before Yahweh in the land of the living.<br/>
               			10. I believed, therefore I said,<span class="sorrow  color">“I
                  				was greatly afflicted.”</span><br/>
               			11. I said in my haste,<span class="anger righteousness color">“All people are liars.”</span><br/>
               			12. What will I give to Yahweh for all his benefits toward
               				me?<br/>
               			13. I will take the cup of salvation, and call on Yahweh’s
               				name.<br/>
               			14. I will pay my vows to Yahweh,yes, in the presence of all his
               				people.<br/>
               			15. <span class="joy praise color">Precious in Yahweh’s
                  				sight</span> is the death of his saints.<br/>
               			16. Yahweh, truly I am your servant. I am your servant, the son
               				of your servant girl. <span class="joy praise color">You have freed me from
                  					my chains.</span><br/>
               			17. I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving,and will
               				call on Yahweh’s name.<br/>
               			18. I will pay my vows to Yahweh,yes, in the presence of all his
               				people,<br/>
               			19. in the courts of Yahweh’s house,in the middle of you,
               				Jerusalem. <span class="joy praise color">Praise Yah!</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 117</h2>
            <p>
               			1. 
               				<span class="joy praise color">Praise Yahweh, all you nations!Extol him, all
                  					you peoples!</span>
               			<br/>
               			2. 
               				<span class="joy praise color">For his loving kindness is great toward us.
                  					Yahweh’s faithfulness endures forever. Praise Yah!</span>
               			
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 118</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy petitioning color">Give thanks to
                  				Yahweh</span>, for <span class="joy praise color">he is good,for his
                  					loving kindness endures forever</span>.<br/>
               			2. 
               				<span class="joy praise color">Let Israel now say that his loving kindness
                  					endures forever.</span>
               			<br/>
               			3. 
               				<span class="joy praise color">Let the house of Aaron now say that his loving
                  					kindness endures forever.</span>
               			<br/>
               			4. 
               				<span class="fear praise color">Now let those who fear Yahweh say that his
                  					loving kindness endures forever.</span>
               			<br/>
               			5. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Out of my distress,
                  				I called on Yah.</span> Yah answered me with freedom.<br/>
               			6. Yahweh is on my side. <span class="contentment boasting color">I will not be afraid.</span> What can man do to me?<br/>
               			7. 
               				<span class="contentment boasting color">Yahweh is on my side among those who
                  					help me. Therefore I will look in triumph at those who hate me.</span>
               			<br/>
               			8. It is better to take refuge in Yahweh,than to put confidence
               				in man.<br/>
               			9. It is better to take refuge in Yahweh,than to put confidence
               				in princes.<br/>
               			10. All the nations surrounded me,but in Yahweh’s name, I cut
               				them off.<br/>
               			11. They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me. In Yahweh’s
               				name I indeed cut them off.<br/>
               			12. <span class="anger boasting color">They surrounded me
                  				like bees. They are quenched like the burning thorns.</span> In Yahweh’s
               				name I cut them off.<br/>
               			13. <span class="sorrow  color">You pushed me back hard, to make
                  				me fall</span>,but <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh helped
                  					me.</span><br/>
               			14. 
               				<span class="joy praise color">Yah is my strength and song. He has become my
                  					salvation.</span>
               			<br/>
               			15. 
               				<span class="joy praise color">The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the
                  					tents of the righteous. “The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly.</span>
               			<br/>
               			16. 
               				<span class="joy praise color">The right hand of Yahweh is exalted!The right
                  					hand of Yahweh does valiantly!”</span>
               			<br/>
               			17. I will not die, but live,and declare Yah’s works.<br/>
               			18. <span class="sorrow  color">Yah has punished me
                  				severely</span>,<span class="joy praise color">but he has not given
                  					me over to death.</span><br/>
               			19. Open to me the gates of righteousness. I will enter into
               				them. I will give thanks to Yah.<br/>
               			20. This is the gate of Yahweh;the righteous will enter into
               				it.<br/>
               			21. I will give thanks to you, for you have answered me,and have
               				become my salvation.<br/>
               			22. The stone which the builders rejectedhas become the
               				cornerstone. head of the corner<br/>
               			23. This is Yahweh’s doing. It is marvelous in our eyes.<br/>
               			24. This is the day that Yahweh has made. We will rejoice and be
               				glad in it!<br/>
               			25. Save us now, we beg you, Yahweh!Yahweh, we beg you, send
               				prosperity now.<br/>
               			26. Blessed is he who comes in Yahweh’s name!We have blessed you
               				out of Yahweh’s house.<br/>
               			27. Yahweh is God, and he has given us light. Bind the sacrifice
               				with cords, even to the horns of the altar.<br/>
               			28. You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my
               				God, I will exalt you.<br/>
               			29. Oh give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,for his loving
               				kindness endures forever.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 119</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed are those whose ways are blameless</span>,who walk according to Yahweh’s law.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed are those who keep his statutes</span>,who seek him with their whole heart.<br/>
               			3. Yes, they do nothing wrong. They walk in his ways.<br/>
               			4. You have commanded your precepts,that we should fully obey them.<br/>
               			5. Oh that my ways were steadfast to obey your statutes!<br/>
               			6. Then I wouldn’t be disappointed,when I consider all of your commandments.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise color">I will give thanks to you with uprightness of heart</span>,when I learn your righteous judgments.<br/>
               			8. I will observe your statutes. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Don’t utterly forsake me.</span><br/>
               			9. How can a young man keep his way pure? By living according to your word.<br/>
               			10. With my whole heart, I have sought you. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Don’t let me wander from your commandments.</span><br/>
               			11. I have hidden your word in my heart,that I might not sin against you.<br/>
               			12. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed are you, Yahweh.</span> Teach me your statutes.<br/>
               			13. With my lips,I have declared all the ordinances of your mouth.<br/>
               			14. <span class="joy praise color">I have rejoiced in the way of your testimonies</span>,as much as in all riches.<br/>
               			15. I will meditate on your precepts,and consider your ways.<br/>
               			16. <span class="joy righteousness color">I will delight myself in your statutes.</span> I will not forget your word.<br/>
               			17. Do good to your servant. I will live and I will obey your word.<br/>
               			18. Open my eyes,that I may see <span class="joy praise color">wondrous things</span> out of your law.<br/>
               			19. I am a stranger on the earth. Don’t hide your commandments from me.<br/>
               			20. <span class="sorrow righteousness color">My soul is consumed with longing for your ordinances at all times.</span><br/>
               			21. <span class="anger righteousness color">You have rebuked the proud who are cursed</span>,who wander from your commandments.<br/>
               			22. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Take reproach and contempt away from me</span>,for I have kept your statutes.<br/>
               			23. Though princes sit and slander me,your servant will meditate on your statutes.<br/>
               			24. Indeed <span class="joy righteousness color">your statutes are my delight</span>,and my counselors.<br/>
               			25. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">My soul is laid low in the dust. Revive me according to your word!</span><br/>
               			26. I declared my ways, and you answered me. Teach me your statutes.<br/>
               			27. Let me understand the teaching of your precepts! Then I will meditate on your wondrous
               works.<br/>
               			28. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">My soul is weary with sorrow:strengthen me according to your word.</span><br/>
               			29. Keep me from the way of deceit. Grant me your law graciously!<br/>
               			30. I have chosen the way of truth. I have set your ordinances before me.<br/>
               			31. I cling to your statutes, Yahweh. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Don’t let me be disappointed.</span><br/>
               			32. I run in the path of your commandments,for you have set my heart free.<br/>
               			33. Teach me, Yahweh, the way of your statutes. I will keep them to the end.<br/>
               			34. Give me understanding, and I will keep your law. Yes, I will obey it with my whole
               heart.<br/>
               			35. Direct me in the path of your commandments,for <span class="joy righteousness color">I delight in them</span>.<br/>
               			36. Turn my heart toward your statutes,not toward selfish gain.<br/>
               			37. Turn my eyes away from looking at worthless things. Revive me in your ways.<br/>
               			38. Fulfill your promise to your servant,<span class="fear righteousness color">that you may be feared.</span><br/>
               			39. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Take away my disgrace that I dread</span>,for your ordinances are good.<br/>
               			40. Behold, I long for your precepts!<span class="sorrow petitioning color">Revive me in your righteousness</span>.<br/>
               			41. <span class="joy petitioning color">Let your loving kindness also come to me</span>, Yahweh,your salvation, according to your word.<br/>
               			42. So I will have an answer for him who reproaches me,for <span class="joy righteousness color">I trust in your word</span>.<br/>
               			43. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Don’t snatch the word of truth out of my mouth</span>,for I put my hope in your ordinances.<br/>
               			44. So I will obey your law continually,forever and ever.<br/>
               			45. I will walk in liberty,for I have sought your precepts.<br/>
               			46. I will also speak of your statutes before kings,and will not be disappointed.<br/>
               			47. <span class="joy righteousness color">I will delight myself in your commandments,because I love them</span>.<br/>
               			48. <span class="joy righteousness color">I reach out my hands for your commandments, which I love.</span> I will meditate on your statutes.<br/>
               			49. <span class="joy petitioning color">Remember your word to your servant,because you gave me hope.</span><br/>
               			50. This is <span class="joy righteousness color">my comfort in my affliction</span>,for your word has revived me.<br/>
               			51. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">The arrogant mock me excessively</span>,but I don’t swerve from your law.<br/>
               			52. I remember your ordinances of old, Yahweh,and <span class="contentment righteousness color">have comforted myself</span>.<br/>
               			53. <span class="anger righteousness color">Indignation has taken hold on me,because of the wicked who forsake your law</span>.<br/>
               			54. Your statutes have been my songs,in the house where I live.<br/>
               			55. I have remembered your name, Yahweh, in the night,and I obey your law.<br/>
               			56. This is my way,that I keep your precepts.<br/>
               			57. Yahweh is my portion. I promised to obey your words.<br/>
               			58. I sought your favor with my whole heart. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Be merciful to me according to your word</span>.<br/>
               			59. I considered my ways,and turned my steps to your statutes.<br/>
               			60. I will hurry, and not delay,to obey your commandments.<br/>
               			61. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">The ropes of the wicked bind me</span>,but I won’t forget your law.<br/>
               			62. At midnight <span class="joy praise color">I will rise to give thanks to you,because of your righteous ordinances</span>.<br/>
               			63. <span class="joy praise color">I am a friend of all those who fear you</span>,of those who observe your precepts.<br/>
               			64. <span class="joy praise color">The earth is full of your loving kindness, Yahweh.</span> <span class="joy petitioning color">Teach me your statutes</span>.<br/>
               			65. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Do good to your servant</span>,according to your word, Yahweh.<br/>
               			66. Teach me good judgment and knowledge,for I believe in your commandments.<br/>
               			67. Before I was afflicted, I went astray;but now I observe your word.<br/>
               			68. <span class="joy praise color">You are good, and do good</span>. <span class="joy petitioning color">Teach me your statutes</span>.<br/>
               			69. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">The proud have smeared a lie upon me</span>. With my whole heart, I will keep your precepts.<br/>
               			70. <span class="anger righteousness color">Their heart is as callous</span> as the fat,but <span class="joy righteousness color">I delight in your law</span>.<br/>
               			71. <span class="sorrow righteousness color">It is good for me that I have been afflicted,that I may learn your statutes</span>.<br/>
               			72. The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of pieces of gold and silver.<br/>
               			73. Your hands have made me and formed me. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Give me understanding</span>, that I may learn your commandments.<br/>
               			74. <span class="joy petitioning color">Those who fear you will see me and be glad,because I have put my hope in your word</span>.<br/>
               			75. Yahweh, I know that your judgments are righteous,that <span class="sorrow righteousness color">in faithfulness you have afflicted me</span>.<br/>
               			76. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Please let your loving kindness be for my comfort</span>,according to your word to your servant.<br/>
               			77. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Let your tender mercies come to me</span>, that I may live;for your law is my delight.<br/>
               			78. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Let the proud be disappointed, for they have overthrown me wrongfully</span>. I will meditate on your precepts.<br/>
               			79. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Let those who fear you turn to me</span>. They will know your statutes.<br/>
               			80. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Let my heart be blameless toward your decrees</span>,that I may not be disappointed.<br/>
               			81. <span class="sorrow pleading color">My soul faints for your salvation</span>. <span class="joy praise color">I hope in your word</span>.<br/>
               			82. My eyes fail for your word. I say, “<span class="sorrow pleading color">When will you comfort me?</span>”<br/>
               			83. For <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I have become like a wineskin in the smoke</span>. I don’t forget your statutes.<br/>
               			84. <span class="sorrow pleading color">How many are the days of your servant?When will you execute judgment on those who
                  persecute me?</span><br/>
               			85. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">The proud have dug pits for me</span>,contrary to your law.<br/>
               			86. All of your commandments are faithful. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">They persecute me wrongfully</span>. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Help me</span>!<br/>
               			87. <span class="sorrow violence color">They had almost wiped me from the earth</span>,but I didn’t forsake your precepts.<br/>
               			88. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Preserve my life according to your loving kindness</span>,so I will obey the statutes of your mouth.<br/>
               			89. Yahweh, <span class="joy praise color">your word is settled in heaven forever</span>.<br/>
               			90. <span class="joy praise color">Your faithfulness is to all generations. You have established the earth, and it remains</span>.<br/>
               			91. Your laws remain to this day,for all things serve you.<br/>
               			92. <span class="sorrow praise color">Unless your law had been my delight,I would have perished in my affliction</span>.<br/>
               			93. I will never forget your precepts,for with them, <span class="joy praise color">you have revived me</span>.<br/>
               			94. I am yours. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Save me</span>, for I have sought your precepts.<br/>
               			95. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">The wicked have waited for me, to destroy me</span>. I will consider your statutes.<br/>
               			96. I have seen a limit to all perfection,but your commands are boundless.<br/>
               			97. <span class="joy righteousness color">How I love your law</span>!It is my meditation all day.<br/>
               			98. <span class="joy boasting color">Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies</span>,for your commandments are always with me.<br/>
               			99. <span class="joy boasting color">I have more understanding than all my teachers</span>,for your testimonies are my meditation.<br/>
               			100. <span class="joy boasting color">I understand more than the aged</span>,because I have kept your precepts.<br/>
               			101. <span class="joy boasting color">I have kept my feet from every evil way</span>,that I might observe your word.<br/>
               			102. <span class="joy boasting color">I have not turned away from your ordinances</span>,for you have taught me.<br/>
               			103. <span class="joy praise color">How sweet are your promises to my taste</span>,more than honey to my mouth!<br/>
               			104. Through your precepts, I get understanding;therefore <span class="anger righteousness color">I hate every false way</span>.<br/>
               			105. <span class="joy praise color">Your word is a lamp to my feet,and a light for my path</span>.<br/>
               			106. I have sworn, and have confirmed it,that I will obey your righteous ordinances.<br/>
               			107. <span class="sorrow pleading color">I am afflicted very much. Revive me, Yahweh</span>, according to your word.<br/>
               			108. Accept, <span class="sorrow pleading color">I beg you</span>, the willing offerings of my mouth. Yahweh, <span class="sorrow pleading color">teach me your ordinances</span>.<br/>
               			109. My soul is continually in my hand,yet I won’t forget your law.<br/>
               			110. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">The wicked have laid a snare for me</span>,yet I haven’t gone astray from your precepts.<br/>
               			111. I have taken your testimonies as a heritage forever,for <span class="joy praise color">they are the joy of my heart</span>.<br/>
               			112. <span class="joy praise color">I have set my heart to perform your statutes forever</span>,even to the end.<br/>
               			113. <span class="anger righteousness color">I hate double-minded men</span>,but <span class="joy righteousness color">I love your law</span>.<br/>
               			114. <span class="joy praise color">You are my hiding place and my shield. I hope in your word.</span><br/>
               			115. <span class="anger righteousness color">Depart from me, you evildoers</span>,that I may keep the commandments of my God.<br/>
               			116. Uphold me according to your word, that I may live. Let me not be ashamed of my hope.<br/>
               			117. Hold me up, and <span class="joy praise color">I will be safe</span>,and will have respect for your statutes continually.<br/>
               			118. You reject all those who stray from your statutes,for <span class="anger righteousness color">their deceit is in vain</span>.<br/>
               			119. <span class="anger righteousness color">You put away all the wicked of the earth</span> like dross. Therefore <span class="joy praise color">I love your testimonies</span>.<br/>
               			120. <span class="fear anxiety color">My flesh trembles for fear of you. I am afraid of your judgments</span>.<br/>
               			121. I have done what is just and righteous. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Don’t leave me to my oppressors</span>.<br/>
               			122. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Ensure your servant’s well-being. Don’t let the proud oppress me</span>.<br/>
               			123. My eyes fail looking for your salvation,for your righteous word.<br/>
               			124. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Deal with your servant according to your loving kindness. Teach me your statutes</span>.<br/>
               			125. I am your servant. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Give me understanding</span>,that I may know your testimonies.<br/>
               			126. It is time to act, Yahweh,for they break your law.<br/>
               			127. Therefore <span class="joy praise color">I love your commandments</span> more than gold,yes, more than pure gold.<br/>
               			128. Therefore <span class="joy righteousness color">I consider all of your precepts to be right</span>. I hate every false way.<br/>
               			129. <span class="joy praise color">Your testimonies are wonderful</span>,therefore my soul keeps them.<br/>
               			130. The entrance of your words gives light. It gives understanding to the simple.<br/>
               			131. I opened my mouth wide and panted,for <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I longed for your commandments</span>.<br/>
               			132. Turn to me, and <span class="sorrow pleading color">have mercy on me</span>,as you always do to those who love your name.<br/>
               			133. Establish my footsteps in your word. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Don’t let any iniquity have dominion over me</span>.<br/>
               			134. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Redeem me from the oppression of man</span>,so I will observe your precepts.<br/>
               			135. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Make your face shine on your servant. Teach me your statutes</span>.<br/>
               			136. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Streams of tears run down my eyes</span>,because they don’t observe your law.<br/>
               			137. <span class="joy praise color">You are righteous, Yahweh. Your judgments are upright</span>.<br/>
               			138. <span class="joy praise color">You have commanded your statutes in righteousness. They are fully trustworthy</span>.<br/>
               			139. <span class="sorrow righteousness color">My zeal wears me out,because my enemies ignore your words</span>.<br/>
               			140. Your promises have been thoroughly tested,and <span class="joy righteousness color">your servant loves them</span>.<br/>
               			141. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I am small and despised</span>. I don’t forget your precepts.<br/>
               			142. <span class="joy praise color">Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness. Your law is truth.</span><br/>
               			143. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Trouble and anguish have taken hold of me.</span> Your commandments <span class="emotion praise color">are my delight</span>.<br/>
               			144. <span class="joy praise color">Your testimonies are righteous forever</span>. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Give me understanding</span>, that I may live.<br/>
               			145. I have called with my whole heart. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Answer me</span>, Yahweh!I will keep your statutes.<br/>
               			146. I have called to you. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Save me</span>!I will obey your statutes.<br/>
               			147. I rise before dawn and <span class="sorrow pleading color">cry for help</span>. I <span class="joy righteousness color">put my hope</span> in your words.<br/>
               			148. My eyes stay open through the night watches,that I might meditate on your word.<br/>
               			149. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Hear my voice according to your loving kindness. Revive me, Yahweh, according to your
                  ordinances.</span><br/>
               			150. They draw near <span class="sorrow anxiety righteousness color">who follow after wickedness</span>. They are far from your law.<br/>
               			151. You are near, Yahweh. All your commandments are truth.<br/>
               			152. Of old I have known from your testimonies,that you have founded them forever.<br/>
               			153. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Consider my affliction, and deliver me</span>,for I don’t forget your law.<br/>
               			154. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Plead my cause, and redeem me!Revive me according to your promise.</span><br/>
               			155. <span class="anger righteousness color">Salvation is far from the wicked</span>,for they don’t seek your statutes.<br/>
               			156. <span class="joy praise color">Great are your tender mercies</span>, Yahweh. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Revive me</span> according to your ordinances.<br/>
               			157. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Many are my persecutors and my adversaries</span>. I haven’t swerved from your testimonies.<br/>
               			158. <span class="anger righteousness color">I look at the faithless with loathing</span>,because they don’t observe your word.<br/>
               			159. Consider how <span class="joy righteousness color">I love your precepts</span>. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Revive me</span>, Yahweh, according to <span class="joy praise color">your loving kindness</span>.<br/>
               			160. <span class="joy praise color">All of your words are truth. Every one of your righteous ordinances endures forever.</span><br/>
               			161. Princes <span class="sorrow anxiety color">have persecuted me without a cause</span>,but <span class="joy praise color">my heart stands in awe</span> of your words.<br/>
               			162. <span class="joy praise color">I rejoice</span> at your word,as one who finds great plunder.<br/>
               			163. <span class="anger righteousness color">I hate and abhor falsehood</span>. <span class="joy righteousness color">I love your law</span>.<br/>
               			164. Seven times a day, <span class="joy praise color">I praise you</span>,because of your righteous ordinances.<br/>
               			165. <span class="joy praise color">Those who love your law have great peace. Nothing causes them to stumble</span>.<br/>
               			166. <span class="sorrow pleading color">I have hoped for your salvation</span>, Yahweh. I have done your commandments.<br/>
               			167. My soul has observed your testimonies. <span class="joy righteousness color">I love them exceedingly</span>.<br/>
               			168. I have obeyed your precepts and your testimonies,for all my ways are before you.<br/>
               			169. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Let my cry come before you, Yahweh. Give me understanding according to your word.</span><br/>
               			170. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Let my supplication come before you. Deliver me according to your word.</span><br/>
               			171. <span class="joy petitioning color">Let my lips utter praise,for you teach me your statutes.</span><br/>
               			172. <span class="joy petitioning color">Let my tongue sing of your word,for all your commandments are righteousness.</span><br/>
               			173. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Let your hand be ready to help me</span>,for I have chosen your precepts.<br/>
               			174. <span class="sorrow pleading color">I have longed for your salvation</span>, Yahweh. Your law is <span class="joy praise color">my delight</span>.<br/>
               			175. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Let my soul live, that I may praise you. Let your ordinances help me.</span><br/>
               			176. I have gone astray <span class="sorrow anxiety color">like a lost sheep</span>. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Seek your servant</span>, for I don’t forget your commandments.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 120</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="sorrow pleading praise color">In my distress, I cried to Yahweh.</span> He answered me.<br/>
               			2. Deliver my soul, Yahweh, from lying lips,from a deceitful tongue.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger righteousness color">What will be given to you, and what will be done more to you, you deceitful tongue?</span><br/>
               			4. Sharp arrows of the mighty,with coals of juniper.<br/>
               			5. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Woe is me</span>, that I live in Meshech,that I dwell among the tents of Kedar!<br/>
               			6. <span class="sorrow righteousness color">My soul has had her dwelling too long with him who hates peace.</span><br/>
               			7. <span class="sorrow righteousness anxiety color">I am for peace,but when I speak, they are for war.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 121</h2>
            <p>
               			1. I will lift up my eyes to the hills. Where does my help come from?<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">My help comes from Yahweh,who made heaven and earth.</span><br/>
               			3. He will not allow your foot to be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber.<br/>
               			4. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep.<br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment praise color">Yahweh is your keeper. Yahweh is your shade on your right hand.</span><br/>
               			6. <span class="contentment praise color">The sun will not harm you by day,nor the moon by night.</span><br/>
               			7. <span class="contentment praise color">Yahweh will keep you from all evil. He will keep your soul.</span><br/>
               			8. <span class="contentment praise color">Yahweh will keep your going out and your coming in,from this time forward, and forever
                  more.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 122</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy righteousness color">I was glad</span> when they said to me,“Let’s go to Yahweh’s house!”<br/>
               			2. Our feet are standing within your gates, Jerusalem;<br/>
               			3. Jerusalem, that is built as a city that is compact together;<br/>
               			4. where the tribes go up, even Yah’s tribes,according to an ordinance for Israel,to
               <span class="joy petitioning praise color">give thanks to Yahweh’s name</span>.<br/>
               			5. For there are set thrones for judgment,the thrones of David’s house.<br/>
               			6. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. <span class="contentment praise color">Those who love you will prosper.</span><br/>
               			7. <span class="contentment petitioning color">Peace be within your walls,and prosperity within your palaces.</span><br/>
               			8. For my brothers’ and companions’ sakes,I will now say, “<span class="contentment petitioning color">Peace be within you.</span>”<br/>
               			9. For the sake of the house of Yahweh our God,<span class="joy righteousness color">I will seek your good.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 123</h2>
            <p>
               			1. To you I do lift up my eyes,you who sit in the heavens.<br/>
               			2. Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master,as the eyes of a
               maid to the hand of her mistress;so our eyes look to Yahweh, our God,until he has
               mercy on us.<br/>
               			3. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Have mercy on us, Yahweh, have mercy on us,for we have endured much contempt.</span><br/>
               			4. <span class="sorrow righteousness color">Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scoffing of those who are at ease,with the
                  contempt of the proud.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 124</h2>
            <p>
               			1. If it had not been Yahweh who was on our side,let Israel now say,<br/>
               			2. if it had not been Yahweh who was on our side,when men rose up against us;<br/>
               			3. <span class="sorrow violence anxiety color">then they would have swallowed us up alive,when their wrath was kindled against us</span>;<br/>
               			4. <span class="sorrow violence anxiety color">then the waters would have overwhelmed us,the stream would have gone over our soul</span>;<br/>
               			5. then the proud waters would have gone over our soul.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise violence color">Blessed be Yahweh,who has not given us as a prey to their teeth.</span><br/>
               			7. Our soul has escaped like a bird out of the fowler’s snare. The snare is broken, and
               we have escaped.<br/>
               			8. Our help is in Yahweh’s name,who made heaven and earth.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 125</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Those who trust in Yahweh are as Mount Zion, which can’t be moved, but remains forever.<br/>
               			2. As the mountains surround Jerusalem,<span class="contentment praise color">so Yahweh surrounds his people from this time forward and forever more.</span><br/>
               			3. <span class="anger righteousness color">For the scepter of wickedness won’t remain over the allotment of the righteous;so
                  that the righteous won’t use their hands to do evil.</span><br/>
               			4. <span class="joy petitioning color">Do good, Yahweh, to those who are good,to those who are upright in their hearts.</span><br/>
               			5. <span class="anger righteousness color">But as for those who turn away to their crooked ways,Yahweh will lead them away with
                  the workers of iniquity.</span> <span class="contentment petitioning color">Peace be on Israel</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 126</h2>
            <p>
               			1. When Yahweh brought back those who returned to Zion,we were like those who dream.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy boasting color">Then our mouth was filled with laughter,and our tongue with singing.</span> Then they said among the nations,“<span class="joy praise color">Yahweh has done great things for them.</span>”<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise boasting color">Yahweh has done great things for us,and we are glad.</span><br/>
               			4. Restore our fortunes again, Yahweh,like the streams in the Negev.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy boasting praise color">Those who sow in tears will reap in joy.</span><br/>
               			6. <span class="joy boasting praise color">He who goes out weeping, carrying seed for sowing,will certainly come again with joy,
                  carrying his sheaves.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 127</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Unless Yahweh builds the house,they who build it labor in vain. Unless Yahweh watches
               over the city,the watchman guards it in vain.<br/>
               			2. <span class="anger righteousness color">It is vain for you to rise up early,to stay up late,eating the bread of toil;for he
                  gives sleep to his loved ones</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy boasting color">Behold, children are a heritage of Yahweh. The fruit of the womb is his reward.</span><br/>
               			4. As arrows in the hand of a mighty man,so are the children of youth.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy boasting color">Happy is the man who has his quiver full of them. They won’t be disappointed when
                  they speak with their enemies in the gate.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 128</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="fear praise color">Blessed is everyone who fears Yahweh,who walks in his ways.</span><br/>
               			2. For you will eat the labor of your hands. <span class="joy praise color">You will be happy</span>, and <span class="contentment praise color">it will be well with you</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="contentment boasting color">Your wife will be as a fruitful vine,in the innermost parts of your house;your children
                  like olive plants,around your table.</span><br/>
               			4. <span class="fear praise color">Behold, thus is the man blessed who fears Yahweh.</span><br/>
               			5. <span class="joy petitioning color">May Yahweh bless you out of Zion,and may you see the good of Jerusalem all the days
                  of your life.</span><br/>
               			6. Yes, may you see your children’s children. <span class="contenment petitioning color">Peace be upon Israel</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 129</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Many times they have afflicted me from my youth up</span>. Let Israel now say,<br/>
               			2. <span class="sorrow boasting color">many times they have afflicted me from my youth up,yet they have not prevailed against
                  me.</span><br/>
               			3. <span class="sorrow violence color">The plowers plowed on my back.</span> They made their furrows long.<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">Yahweh is righteous. He has cut apart the cords of the wicked.</span><br/>
               			5. <span class="anger petitioning color">Let them be disappointed and turned backward</span>, all those who hate Zion.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger petitioning color">Let them be as the grass on the housetops,which withers before it grows up</span>;<br/>
               			7. with which the reaper doesn’t fill his hand,nor he who binds sheaves, his bosom.<br/>
               			8. Neither do those who go by say,“<span class="joy petitioning color">The blessing of Yahweh be on you. We bless you in Yahweh’s name.</span>”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 130</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Out of the depths I have cried to you</span>, Yahweh.<br/>
               			2. Lord, <span class="sorrow petitioning color">hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my petitions.</span><br/>
               			3. If you, Yah, kept a record of sins,Lord, who could stand?<br/>
               			4. But there is forgiveness with you,therefore <span class="fear boasting praise color">you are feared.</span><br/>
               			5. I wait for Yahweh. My soul waits. <span class="joy righteousness color">I hope in his word.</span><br/>
               			6. <span class="sorrow pleading color">My soul longs for the Lord</span> more than watchmen long for the morning;more than watchmen for the morning.<br/>
               			7. <span class="contentment petitioning praise color">Israel, hope in Yahweh,for with Yahweh there is loving kindness. With him is abundant
                  redemption.</span><br/>
               			8. He will redeem Israel from all their sins.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 131</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="contentment boasting color">Yahweh, my heart isn’t arrogant, nor my eyes lofty;nor do I concern myself with great
                  matters,or things too wonderful for me.</span><br/>
               			2. Surely I have stilled and quieted my soul,like a weaned child with his mother,like
               a weaned child is my soul within me.<br/>
               			3. Israel, <span class="contentment petitioning color">hope in Yahweh</span>,from this time forward and forever more.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 132</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Yahweh, remember David and all his affliction,<br/>
               			2. how he swore to Yahweh,and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob:<br/>
               			3. “Surely I will not come into the structure of my house,nor go up into my bed;<br/>
               			4. I will not give sleep to my eyes,or slumber to my eyelids;<br/>
               			5. until I find out a place for Yahweh,a dwelling for the Mighty One of Jacob.”<br/>
               			6. Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah. We found it in the field of Jaar:<br/>
               			7. “We will go into his dwelling place. We will worship at his footstool.<br/>
               			8. Arise, Yahweh, into your resting place;you, and the ark of your strength.<br/>
               			9. <span class="contentment petitioning righteousness color">Let your priests be clothed with righteousness. Let your saints shout for joy!</span>”<br/>
               			10. For your servant David’s sake,<span class="sorrow pleading color">don’t turn away the face of your anointed one</span>.<br/>
               			11. Yahweh has sworn to David in truth. He will not turn from it:“<span class="joy boasting color">I will set the fruit of your body on your throne.</span><br/>
               			12. If your children will keep my covenant,my testimony that I will teach them,<span class="joy boasting color">their children also will sit on your throne forever more.</span>”<br/>
               			13. For Yahweh has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his habitation.<br/>
               			14. “This is my resting place forever. <span class="contentment righteousness color">I will live here, for I have desired it.</span><br/>
               			15. <span class="contentment boasting color">I will abundantly bless her provision. I will satisfy her poor with bread.</span><br/>
               			16. <span class="joy boasting color">Her priests I will also clothe with salvation. Her saints will shout aloud for joy.</span><br/>
               			17. There I will make the horn of David to bud. <span class="contentment boasting color">I have ordained a lamp for my anointed.</span><br/>
               			18. <span class="anger boasting righteousness color">I will clothe his enemies with shame</span>,but on himself, <span class="joy boasting color">his crown will be resplendent.</span>”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 133</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">See how good and how pleasant it is</span> for brothers to live together in unity!<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise righteousness color">It is like the precious oil on the head</span>,that ran down on the beard,even Aaron’s beard;that came down on the edge of his robes;<br/>
               			3. like the dew of Hermon,that comes down on the hills of Zion:for <span class="joy praise color">there Yahweh gives the blessing,even life forever more</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 134</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Look! <span class="joy petitioning color">Praise Yahweh</span>, all you servants of Yahweh,who stand by night in Yahweh’s house!<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy petitioning color">Lift up your hands in the sanctuary. Praise Yahweh!</span><br/>
               			3. <span class="joy petitioning color">May Yahweh bless you</span> from Zion;even he who made heaven and earth.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 135</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy petitioning color">Praise Yah!Praise Yahweh’s name!Praise him</span>, you servants of Yahweh,<br/>
               			2. you who stand in Yahweh’s house,in the courts of our God’s house.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy petitioning color">Praise Yah</span>, for <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is good</span>. <span class="joy petitioning color">Sing praises to his name, for that is pleasant.</span><br/>
               			4. For Yah has chosen Jacob for himself;Israel for his own possession.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise boasting color">For I know that Yahweh is great,that our Lord is above all gods.</span><br/>
               			6. Whatever Yahweh pleased, that he has done,in heaven and in earth, in the seas and
               in all deeps;<br/>
               			7. who causes the clouds to rise from the ends of the earth;who makes lightnings with
               the rain;who brings the wind out of his treasuries;<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger violence color">Who struck the firstborn of Egypt</span>,both of man and animal;<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise color">Who sent signs and wonders</span> into the middle of you, Egypt,on Pharaoh, and on all his servants;<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">who struck many nations,and killed mighty kings</span>,<br/>
               			11. Sihon king of the Amorites,Og king of Bashan,and all the kingdoms of Canaan,<br/>
               			12. and gave their land for a heritage,a heritage to Israel, his people.<br/>
               			13. <span class="joy praise boasting color">Your name, Yahweh, endures forever</span>;your renown, Yahweh, throughout all generations.<br/>
               			14. <span class="joy righteousness color">For Yahweh will judge his people,and have compassion on his servants.</span><br/>
               			15. The idols of the nations are silver and gold,the work of men’s hands.<br/>
               			16. They have mouths, but they can’t speak. They have eyes, but they can’t see.<br/>
               			17. They have ears, but they can’t hear;neither is there any breath in their mouths.<br/>
               			18. Those who make them will be like them;yes, everyone who trusts in them.<br/>
               			19. <span class="joy petitioning color">House of Israel, praise Yahweh!House of Aaron, praise Yahweh!</span><br/>
               			20. <span class="joy petitioning color">House of Levi, praise Yahweh!You who fear Yahweh, praise Yahweh!</span><br/>
               			21. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed be Yahweh</span> from Zion,Who dwells at Jerusalem. <span class="joy praise color">Praise Yah!</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 136</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good;for his loving kindness endures forever.</span><br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Give thanks to the God of gods;for his loving kindness endures forever</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Give thanks to the Lord of lords;for his loving kindness endures forever</span>:<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise color">To him who alone does great wonders;for his loving kindness endures forever</span>:<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">To him who by understanding made the heavens;for his loving kindness endures forever</span>:<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">To him who spread out the earth above the waters;for his loving kindness endures forever</span>:<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise color">To him who made the great lights;for his loving kindness endures forever</span>:<br/>
               			8. The sun to rule by day;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>;<br/>
               			9. The moon and stars to rule by night;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>:<br/>
               			10. To him who <span class="anger praise violence color">struck down the Egyptian firstborn</span>;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>;<br/>
               			11. And brought out Israel from among them;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>;<br/>
               			12. With a strong hand, and with an outstretched arm;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>:<br/>
               			13. To him who divided the Red Sea apart;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>;<br/>
               			14. And made Israel to pass through the middle of it;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>;<br/>
               			15. But <span class="anger praise violence color">overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea</span>;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>:<br/>
               			16. To him who led his people through the wilderness;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>:<br/>
               			17. To him who <span class="anger praise violence color">struck great kings</span>;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>;<br/>
               			18. And <span class="anger praise violence color">killed mighty kings</span>;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>:<br/>
               			19. Sihon king of the Amorites;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>;<br/>
               			20. Og king of Bashan;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>;<br/>
               			21. And gave their land as an inheritance;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>;<br/>
               			22. Even a heritage to Israel his servant;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>:<br/>
               			23. Who remembered us in our low estate;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>;<br/>
               			24. And has delivered us from our adversaries;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>:<br/>
               			25. Who gives food to every creature;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>.<br/>
               			26. Oh give thanks to the God of heaven;for <span class="joy praise color">his loving kindness endures forever</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 137</h2>
            <p>
               			1. By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down. Yes, <span class="sorrow anxiety color">we wept</span>, when we remembered Zion.<br/>
               			2. On the willows in that land,we hung up our harps.<br/>
               			3. For there, those who led us captive asked us for songs. Those who <span class="sorrow violence color">tormented us</span> demanded songs of joy:“<span class="anger anxiety color">Sing us one of the songs of Zion!</span>”<br/>
               			4. How can we sing Yahweh’s song in a foreign land?<br/>
               			5. If I forget you, Jerusalem,<span class="sorrow righteousness petitioning color">let my right hand forget its skill</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="sorrow righteousness petitioning color">Let my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth</span> if I don’t remember you;if I don’t prefer Jerusalem above my chief joy.<br/>
               			7. Remember, Yahweh, against the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem,who said, “<span class="anger violence petitioning color">Raze it!Raze it even to its foundation!</span>”<br/>
               			8. Daughter of Babylon, <span class="anger violence color">doomed to destruction</span>,<span class="joy boasting color">he will be happy</span> who rewards you,as you have served us.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy righteousness color">Happy shall he be</span>,who <span class="anger violence color">takes and dashes your little ones against the rock.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 138</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">I will give you thanks with my whole heart. Before the gods, I will sing praises to
                  you.</span><br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">I will bow down toward your holy temple,and give thanks to your Name for your loving
                  kindness and for your truth;for you have exalted your Name and your Word above all.</span><br/>
               			3. In the day that I called, you answered me. <span class="joy praise color">You encouraged me</span> with strength in my soul.<br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise boasting color">All the kings of the earth will give you thanks</span>, Yahweh,for they have heard the words of your mouth.<br/>
               			5. Yes, they will sing of the ways of Yahweh;for <span class="joy praise color">great is Yahweh’s glory</span>.<br/>
               			6. For though Yahweh is high, <span class="joy praise color">yet he looks after the lowly</span>;but the proud, he knows from afar.<br/>
               			7. <span class="sorrow praise color">Though I walk in the middle of trouble, you will revive me.</span> <span class="joy praise righteousness color">You will stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies</span>. <span class="joy praise color">Your right hand will save me</span>.<br/>
               			8. Yahweh will fulfill that which concerns me;<span class="joy praise color">your loving kindness, Yahweh, endures forever</span>. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Don’t forsake the works of your own hands</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 139</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Yahweh, you have searched me,and you know me.<br/>
               			2. You know my sitting down and my rising up. You perceive my thoughts from afar.<br/>
               			3. You search out my path and my lying down,and are acquainted with all my ways.<br/>
               			4. For there is not a word on my tongue,but, behold, Yahweh, you know it altogether.<br/>
               			5. You hem me in behind and before. You laid your hand on me.<br/>
               			6. This knowledge is beyond me. It’s lofty. I can’t attain it.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy righteousness color">Where could I go from your Spirit?Or where could I flee from your presence?</span><br/>
               			8. If I ascend up into heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, you
               are there!<br/>
               			9. If I take the wings of the dawn,and settle in the uttermost parts of the sea;<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy praise color">Even there your hand will lead me,and your right hand will hold me.</span><br/>
               			11. If I say, “<span class="sorrow anxiety color">Surely the darkness will overwhelm me;the light around me will be night;</span>”<br/>
               			12. <span class="joy praise color">even the darkness doesn’t hide from you,but the night shines as the day. The darkness
                  is like light to you</span>.<br/>
               			13. For you formed my inmost being. You knit me together in my mother’s womb.<br/>
               			14. <span class="joy praise color">I will give thanks to you,for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Your works are
                  wonderful.</span> My soul knows that very well.<br/>
               			15. My frame wasn’t hidden from you,when I was made in secret,woven together in the depths
               of the earth.<br/>
               			16. Your eyes saw my body. In your book they were all written,the days that were ordained
               for me,when as yet there were none of them.<br/>
               			17. <span class="joy praise color">How precious to me are your thoughts</span>, God!How vast is their sum!<br/>
               			18. If I would count them, they are more in number than the sand. When I wake up, I am
               still with you.<br/>
               			19. If only you, God, <span class="anger violence righteousness color">would kill the wicked</span>. <span class="anger righteousness color">Get away from me, you bloodthirsty men</span>!<br/>
               			20. For <span class="anger righteousness color">they speak against you wickedly</span>. <span class="anger righteousness color">Your enemies take your name in vain</span>.<br/>
               			21. Yahweh, <span class="anger righteousness color">don’t I hate those who hate you</span>?Am I not <span class="sorrow righteousness color">grieved with those who rise up against you</span>?<br/>
               			22. <span class="anger righteousness color">I hate them with perfect hatred. They have become my enemies.</span><br/>
               			23. Search me, God, and know my heart. Try me, and know my thoughts.<br/>
               			24. See if there is any wicked way in me,and <span class="joy petitioning color">lead me in the everlasting way</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 140</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Deliver me, Yahweh, from the evil man. Preserve me from the violent man</span>:<br/>
               			2. those who devise mischief in their hearts. They continually <span class="anger violence color">gather themselves together for war</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger violence color">They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent. Viper’s poison is under their lips.
                  </span>
               			<br/>
               			4. Yahweh, <span class="sorrow pleading color">keep me from the hands of the wicked. Preserve me from the violent men who have determined
                  to trip my feet</span>.<br/>
               			5. The proud <span class="sorrow anxiety color">have hidden a snare for me,they have spread the cords of a net by the path. They have
                  set traps for me.</span> 
               			<br/>
               			6. I said to Yahweh, “You are my God.”<span class="sorrow pleading color">Listen to the cry of my petitions</span>, Yahweh.<br/>
               			7. Yahweh, the Lord, <span class="joy praise color">the strength of my salvation,you have covered my head in the day of battle</span>.<br/>
               			8. Yahweh, <span class="anger petitioning color">don’t grant the desires of the wicked. Don’t let their evil plans succeed</span>, or they will become proud. 
               			<br/>
               			9. As for the head of those who surround me,<span class="anger petitioning color">let the mischief of their own lips cover them</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger violence color">Let burning coals fall on them. Let them be thrown into the fire,into miry pits</span>, from where they never rise.<br/>
               			11. An <span class="anger righteousness color">evil speaker</span> won’t be established in the earth. Evil will hunt the violent man to overthrow him.<br/>
               			12. I know that Yahweh will <span class="contentment praise color">maintain the cause of the afflicted,and justice for the needy.</span><br/>
               			13. Surely <span class="joy praise righteousness color">the righteous will give thanks to your name. The upright will dwell in your presence.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 141</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Yahweh, I have called on you. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Come to me quickly! Listen to my voice when I call to you.</span><br/>
               			2. Let my prayer be set before you like incense;the lifting up of my hands like the evening
               sacrifice.<br/>
               			3. Set a watch, Yahweh, before my mouth. Keep the door of my lips.<br/>
               			4. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Don’t incline my heart to any evil thing,to practice deeds of wickedness with men
                  who work iniquity.</span> Don’t let me eat of their delicacies.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger righteousness color">Let the righteous strike me, it is kindness</span>;<span class="sorrow righteousness color">let him reprove me, it is like oil on the head</span>;don’t let my head refuse it;Yet <span class="sorrow petitioning color">my prayer is always against evil deeds</span>.<br/>
               			6. Their judges are <span class="anger violence color">thrown down by the sides of the rock</span>. They will hear my words, for they are well spoken.<br/>
               			7. “As when one plows and breaks up the earth,<span class="sorrow violence color">our bones are scattered at the mouth of Sheol.</span>”<br/>
               			8. For my eyes are on you, Yahweh, the Lord. In you, I take refuge. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Don’t leave my soul destitute</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="sorrow petitioning righteousness color">Keep me from the snare which they have laid for me,from the traps of the workers of
                  iniquity.</span><br/>
               			10. <span class="anger petitioning color">Let the wicked fall together into their own nets</span>,while I pass by.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 142</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="sorrow pleading color">I cry with my voice</span> to Yahweh. With my voice, <span class="sorrow pleading color">I ask Yahweh for mercy</span>.<br/>
               			2. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">I pour out my complaint before him. I tell him my troubles.</span><br/>
               			3. When <span class="sorrow anxiety color">my spirit was overwhelmed within me</span>,you knew my route. On the path in which I walk,<span class="sorrow anxiety color">they have hidden a snare for me</span>.<br/>
               			4. Look on my right, and see;for <span class="sorrow anxiety color">there is no one who is concerned for me. Refuge has fled from me. No one cares for
                  my soul.</span><br/>
               			5. <span class="sorrow pleading color">I cried to you</span>, Yahweh. I said, “<span class="sorrow praise color">You are my refuge,my portion in the land of the living.</span>”<br/>
               			6. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Listen to my cry,for I am in desperate need. Deliver me from my persecutors,for they
                  are too strong for me.</span><br/>
               			7. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Bring my soul out of prison</span>,<span class="joy praise color">that I may give thanks to your name. The righteous will surround me,for you will be
                  good to me</span>.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 143</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Hear my prayer, Yahweh. Listen to my petitions. In your faithfulness and righteousness,
                  relieve me.</span><br/>
               			2. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Don’t enter into judgment with your servant,for in your sight no man living is righteous</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="sorrow violence color">For the enemy pursues my soul. He has struck my life down to the ground. He has made
                  me live in dark places, as those who have been long dead.</span><br/>
               			4. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Therefore my spirit is overwhelmed within me. My heart within me is desolate.</span><br/>
               			5. I remember the days of old. I meditate on all your doings. I contemplate the work
               of your hands.<br/>
               			6. I spread out my hands to you. <span class="sorrow pleading color">My soul thirsts for you, like a parched land.</span> 
               			<br/>
               			7. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Hurry to answer me</span>, Yahweh. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">My spirit fails</span>. <span class="sorrow pleading anxiety color">Don’t hide your face from me,so that I don’t become like those who go down into the
                  pit</span>.<br/>
               			8. <span class="joy pleading color">Cause me to hear your loving kindness in the morning,for I trust in you. Cause me
                  to know the way in which I should walk,for I lift up my soul to you.</span><br/>
               			9. <span class="sorrow pleading anxiety color">Deliver me, Yahweh, from my enemies. I flee to you to hide me.</span><br/>
               			10. Teach me to do your will,for you are my God. <span class="joy praise color">Your Spirit is good</span>. <span class="contentment petitioning righteousness color">Lead me in the land of uprightness</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="sorrow pleading color">Revive me</span>, Yahweh, for your name’s sake. In your righteousness, <span class="sorrow pleading color">bring my soul out of trouble</span>.<br/>
               			12. In your loving kindness, cut off my enemies,and destroy all those who afflict my soul,For
               I am your servant.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 144</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed be Yahweh, my rock</span>,<span class="anger praise violence color">who teaches my hands to war,and my fingers to battle</span>:<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">my loving kindness, my fortress,my high tower, my deliverer,my shield, and he in whom
                  I take refuge</span>;<span class="anger praise color">who subdues my people under me</span>.<br/>
               			3. Yahweh, what is man, that you care for him?Or the son of man, that you think of him?<br/>
               			4. Man is like a breath. His days are like a shadow that passes away.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy petitioning color">Part your heavens, Yahweh, and come down</span>. <span class="joy praise color">Touch the mountains, and they will smoke</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="anger violence petitioning color">Throw out lightning, and scatter them. Send out your arrows, and rout them.</span><br/>
               			7. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Stretch out your hand from above,rescue me, and deliver me out of great waters,out
                  of the hands of foreigners</span>;<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger righteousness color">whose mouths speak deceit,whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise color">I will sing a new song to you</span>, God. On a ten-stringed lyre, <span class="joy praise color">I will sing praises to you</span>.<br/>
               			10. You are he who <span class="joy praise color">gives salvation to kings,who rescues David, his servant, from the deadly sword</span>.<br/>
               			11. <span class="sorrow petitioning color">Rescue me, and deliver me out of the hands of foreigners</span>,<span class="anger righteousness color">whose mouths speak deceit,whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood</span>.<br/>
               			12. Then <span class="joy boasting color">our sons will be like well-nurtured plants,our daughters like pillars carved to adorn
                  a palace</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="joy boasting color">Our barns are full, filled with all kinds of provision. Our sheep produce thousands
                  and ten thousands in our fields.</span><br/>
               			14. <span class="joy boasting color">Our oxen will pull heavy loads. There is no breaking in, and no going away,and no
                  outcry in our streets.</span><br/>
               			15. <span class="joy praise color">Happy are the people who are in such a situation. Happy are the people whose God is
                  Yahweh.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 145</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">I will exalt you</span>, my God, the King. I will praise your name forever and ever.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">Every day I will praise you. I will extol your name forever and ever.</span><br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">Great is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised!His greatness is unsearchable.</span><br/>
               			4. One generation <span class="joy praise color">will commend your works to another,and will declare your mighty acts.</span><br/>
               			5. Of <span class="joy praise color">the glorious majesty of your honor,of your wondrous works</span>, I will meditate.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">Men will speak of the might of your awesome acts. I will declare your greatness.</span><br/>
               			7. They <span class="joy praise color">will utter the memory of your great goodness,and will sing of your righteousness.</span><br/>
               			8. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is gracious, merciful,slow to anger, and of great loving kindness.</span><br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is good to all. His tender mercies are over all his works.</span><br/>
               			10. <span class="joy praise color">All your works will give thanks to you, Yahweh. Your saints will extol you.</span><br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise color">They will speak of the glory of your kingdom,and talk about your power</span>;<br/>
               			12. to make known to the sons of men <span class="joy praise color">his mighty acts,the glory of the majesty of his kingdom</span>.<br/>
               			13. <span class="joy praise color">Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. Your dominion endures throughout all generations.
                  Yahweh is faithful in all his words,and loving in all his deeds.</span><br/>
               			14. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh upholds all who fall,and raises up all those who are bowed down.</span><br/>
               			15. The eyes of all wait for you. <span class="joy praise color">You give them their food in due season.</span><br/>
               			16. <span class="joy praise color">You open your hand,and satisfy the desire of every living thing.</span><br/>
               			17. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is righteous in all his ways,and gracious in all his works.</span><br/>
               			18. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh is near to all those who call on him,to all who call on him in truth.</span><br/>
               			19. <span class="joy praise color">He will fulfill the desire of those who fear him. He also will hear their cry, and
                  will save them.</span><br/>
               			20. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh preserves all those who love him</span>,but <span class="anger violence righteousness color">all the wicked he will destroy</span>.<br/>
               			21. <span class="joy praise color">My mouth will speak the praise of Yahweh. Let all flesh bless his holy name forever
                  and ever.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 146</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Praise Yah!Praise Yahweh</span>, my soul.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">While I live, I will praise Yahweh. I will sing praises to my God as long as I exist.</span><br/>
               			3. Don’t put your trust in princes,each a son of man <span class="sorrow righteousness color">in whom there is no help</span>.<br/>
               			4. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">His spirit departs, and he returns to the earth. In that very day, his thoughts perish</span>.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">Happy is he who has the God of Jacob for his help,whose hope is in Yahweh</span>, his God:<br/>
               			6. who made heaven and earth,the sea, and all that is in them;who <span class="joy praise color">keeps truth forever</span>;<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise color">who executes justice for the oppressed;who gives food to the hungry. Yahweh frees
                  the prisoners</span>.<br/>
               			8. Yahweh <span class="joy praise color">opens the eyes of the blind. Yahweh raises up those who are bowed down. Yahweh loves
                  the righteous</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh preserves the foreigners. He upholds the fatherless and widow</span>,but the way of <span class="anger righteousness color">the wicked he turns upside down</span>.<br/>
               			10. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh will reign forever;your God, O Zion, to all generations. Praise Yah!</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 147</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise color">Praise Yah,for it is good to sing praises to our God;for it is pleasant and fitting
                  to praise him.</span><br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh builds up Jerusalem. He gathers together the outcasts of Israel</span>.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">He heals the broken in heart,and binds up their wounds.</span><br/>
               			4. He counts the number of the stars. He calls them all by their names.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">Great is our Lord, and mighty in power. His understanding is infinite</span>.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">Yahweh upholds the humble</span>. He <span class="anger righteousness color">brings the wicked down to the ground</span>.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise color">Sing to Yahweh with thanksgiving. Sing praises</span> on the harp to our God,<br/>
               			8. who covers the sky with clouds,who prepares rain for the earth,who makes grass grow
               on the mountains.<br/>
               			9. He <span class="joy praise color">provides food</span> for the livestock,and for the young ravens when they call.<br/>
               			10. He doesn’t delight in the strength of the horse. He takes no pleasure in the legs
               of a man.<br/>
               			11. Yahweh <span class="joy praise color">takes pleasure in those who fear him,in those who hope in his loving kindness</span>.<br/>
               			12. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise Yahweh, Jerusalem!Praise your God, Zion!</span><br/>
               			13. <span class="joy praise color">For he has strengthened the bars of your gates. He has blessed your children within
                  you.</span><br/>
               			14. <span class="joy praise color">He makes peace in your borders. He fills you with the finest of the wheat.</span><br/>
               			15. He sends out his commandment to the earth. His word runs very swiftly.<br/>
               			16. He <span class="joy praise color">gives snow like wool,and scatters frost like ashes</span>.<br/>
               			17. He <span class="anger violence color">hurls down his hail like pebbles</span>. <span class="anger anxiety color">Who can stand before his cold?</span><br/>
               			18. He sends out his word, and melts them. He causes his wind to blow, and the waters
               flow.<br/>
               			19. He shows his word to Jacob;his statutes and his ordinances to Israel.<br/>
               			20. <span class="joy boasting color">He has not done this for just any nation</span>. They don’t know his ordinances. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise Yah</span>!
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 148</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise Yah!Praise Yahweh from the heavens!Praise him in the heights!</span><br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise him, all his angels!Praise him, all his army!</span><br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise him, sun and moon!Praise him, all you shining stars!</span><br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise him, you heavens of heavens</span>,You waters that are above the heavens.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let them praise Yahweh’s name</span>,For he commanded, and they were created.<br/>
               			6. He has also established them forever and ever. He has made a decree which will not
               pass away.<br/>
               			7. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise Yahweh from the earth</span>,you great sea creatures, and all depths;<br/>
               			8. lightning and hail, snow and clouds;stormy wind, fulfilling his word;<br/>
               			9. mountains and all hills;fruit trees and all cedars;<br/>
               			10. wild animals and all livestock;small creatures and flying birds;<br/>
               			11. kings of the earth and all peoples;princes and all judges of the earth;<br/>
               			12. both young men and maidens;old men and children:<br/>
               			13. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">let them praise Yahweh’s name,for his name alone is exalted. His glory is above the
                  earth and the heavens.</span><br/>
               			14. <span class="joy praise boasting color">He has lifted up the horn of his people,the praise of all his saints;even of the children
                  of Israel, a people near to him.</span> <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise Yah!</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 149</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise Yahweh!Sing to Yahweh a new song,his praise</span> in the assembly of the saints.<br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let Israel rejoice in him</span> who made them. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let the children of Zion be joyful</span> in their King.<br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let them praise his name in the dance!Let them sing praises to him with tambourine
                  and harp!</span><br/>
               			4. For Yahweh <span class="joy praise color">takes pleasure in his people. He crowns the humble with salvation.</span><br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let the saints rejoice in honor. Let them sing for joy on their beds.</span><br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">May the high praises of God be in their mouths</span>,and a two-edged sword in their hand;<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger violence color">To execute vengeance on the nations,and punishments on the peoples</span>;<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger violence color">To bind their kings with chains,and their nobles with fetters of iron</span>;<br/>
               			9. to <span class="anger righteousness color">execute on them the written judgment</span>. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">All his saints have this honor. Praise Yah!</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 150</h2>
            <p>
               			1. <span class="joy praise  petitioning color">Praise Yah!Praise God in his sanctuary!Praise him in his heavens for his acts of power!</span><br/>
               			2. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise him for his mighty acts!Praise him according to his excellent greatness!</span><br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise him with the sounding of the trumpet!Praise him with harp and lyre!</span><br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise him with tambourine and dancing!Praise him with stringed instruments and flute!</span><br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Praise him with loud cymbals!Praise him with resounding cymbals!</span><br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Let everything that has breath praise Yah!Praise Yah!</span>
               		</p>
         </div>
         <div class="corpora REV">
            <h1>Revelations</h1>
            <h2>Chapter: 1</h2>
            <p>
               			1. This is the Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to
               				show to his servants the things which must happen soon, which he sent and made
               known
               				by his angel to his servant, John,<br/>
               			2. who testified to God’s word and of the testimony of Jesus
               				Christ, about everything that he saw.<br/>
               			3. 
               				<span class="joy praise color">Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the
                  					words of the prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it, for the time
                  					is at hand.</span>
               			<br/>
               			4. John, to the seven assemblies that are in Asia: Grace to you and
               				peace from God, who is and who was and who is to come; and from the seven Spirits
               				who are before his throne;<br/>
               			5. and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of
               				the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To him who loves us, and washed
               				us from our sins by his blood—<br/>
               			6. and he made us to be a Kingdom, priests to his God and
               					Father—<span class="joy praise color">to him be the glory and the
                  					dominion forever and ever.</span> Amen.<br/>
               			7. Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see
               				him, including those who pierced him. <span class="sorrow righteousness color">All the tribes of the earth will mourn over him.</span>
               				Even so, Amen.<br/>
               			8. “I am the Alpha and the Omega,“who is and who was and who is to
               				come, the Almighty.”<br/>
               			9. I John, your brother and partner with you in the oppression,
               				Kingdom, and perseverance in Christ Jesus, was on the isle that is called Patmos
               				because of God’s Word and the testimony of Jesus Christ.<br/>
               			10. I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, and I heard behind me a
               				loud voice, like a trumpet<br/>
               			11. saying, to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis,
               				Philadelphia, and to Laodicea.”<br/>
               			12. I turned to see the voice that spoke with me. Having turned, I
               				saw seven golden lamp stands.<br/>
               			13. And among the lamp stands was one like a son of man, clothed
               				with a robe reaching down to his feet, and with a golden sash around his chest.<br/>
               			14. His head and his hair were white as white wool, like snow. His
               				eyes were like a flame of fire.<br/>
               			15. His feet were like burnished brass, as if it had been refined
               				in a furnace. His voice was like the voice of many waters.<br/>
               			16. He had seven stars in his right hand. <span class="anger violence color">Out of his mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged
                  					sword.</span> His face was like the sun shining at its brightest.<br/>
               			17. When I saw him, <span class="? praise color">I fell at
                  					his feet like a dead man.</span> He laid his right hand on me,
               					saying,“<span class="contentment petitioning color">Don’t be
                  					afraid.</span> I am the first and the last,<br/>
               			18. and the Living one. I was dead, and behold, I am alive forever
               				and ever. Amen. I have the keys of Death and of Hades.<br/>
               			19. Write therefore the things which you have seen, and the things
               				which are, and the things which will happen hereafter.<br/>
               			20. The mystery of the seven stars which you saw in my right hand,
               				and the seven golden lamp stands is this: The seven stars are the angelsof the
               seven
               				assemblies. The seven lamp stands are seven assemblies.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 2</h2>
            <p>
               			1. “To the angel of the assembly in Ephesus write:“He who holds the
               				seven stars in his right hand, he who walks among the seven golden lamp stands
               says
               				these things:<br/>
               			2. “I know your works, and your <span class="sorror  color">toil</span> and <span class="contentment  color">perseverance</span>,
               				and that <span class="anger righteousness color">you can’t tolerate evil men,
                  					and have tested those who call themselves apostles, and they are not, and found
                  					them false.</span><br/>
               			3. <span class="joy praise color">You have perseverance and have endured for my name’s sake, and
                  				havenot grown weary.</span><br/>
               			4. <span class="anger righteousness color">But I have this against you, that you left your first love.</span><br/>
               			5. <span class="anger violence color">Remember therefore from where you have fallen, and repent and do
                  				the first works; or else I am coming to you swiftly, and will move your lamp stand
                  				out of its place, unless you repent.</span><br/>
               			6. <span class="anger righteousness color">But this you have, that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans,
                  				which I also hate.</span><br/>
               			7. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the
               				assemblies. <span class="joy praise color">To him who overcomes I will give to eat from the tree of life, which is
                  				in the Paradise of my God.</span><br/>
               			8. “To the angel of the assembly in Smyrna write:“The first and the
               				last, who was dead, and has come to life says these things:<br/>
               			9. “I know your works, oppression, and your poverty (but you are
               				rich), and the blasphemy of those who say they are Jews, and they are not, but
               are a
               				synagogue of Satan.<br/>
               			10. Don’t be afraid of the things which you are about to suffer.
               				<span class="sorrow violence color">Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested;
                  				and you will have oppression for ten days.</span> <span class="contentment petitioning color">Be faithful to death, and I will give you
                  				the crown of life.</span><br/>
               			11. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the
               				assemblies. <span class="joy boasting color">He who overcomes won’t be harmed by the second death.</span><br/>
               			12. “To the angel of the assembly in Pergamum write:“He who has
               				the sharp two-edged sword says these things:<br/>
               			13. “I know your works and where you dwell, where Satan’s throne
               				is. You hold firmly to my name, and didn’t deny my faith in the days of Antipas
               my
               				witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger righteousness color">But I have a few things against you, because you have there
                  				some who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to throw a stumbling block
                  				before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit
                  				sexual immorality.</span><br/>
               			15. So you also have some who hold to the teaching of the
               				Nicolaitans likewise.<br/>
               			16. <span class="anger violence color">Repent therefore, or else I am coming to you quickly, and I
                  				will make war against them with the sword of my mouth.</span><br/>
               			17. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the
               				assemblies. To him who overcomes, to him I will give of the hidden manna,and I
               will
               				give him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows
               but
               				he who receives it.<br/>
               			18. “To the angel of the assembly in Thyatira write:“The Son of
               				God, who has his eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet are like burnished brass,
               				says these things:<br/>
               			19. “I know your works, your love, faith, service, patient
               				endurance, and that your last works are more than the first.<br/>
               			20. <span class="anger righteousness color">But I have this against you, that you tolerate yourwoman,
                  				Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess. She teaches and seduces my servants to
                  				commit sexual immorality, and to eat things sacrificed to idols.</span><br/>
               			21. <span class="anger righteousness color">I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her
                  				sexual immorality.</span><br/>
               			22. <span class="anger violence color">Behold, I will throw her into a bed, and those who commit
                  				adultery with her into great oppression, unless they repent of her works.</span><br/>
               			23. <span class="anger violence color">I will kill her children with Death, and all the assemblies
                  				will know that I am he who searches the minds and hearts. I will give to each
                  one of
                  				you according to your deeds.</span><br/>
               			24. But to you I say, to the rest who are in Thyatira, as many as
               				don’t have this teaching, who don’t know what some call ‘the deep things of Satan,’
               				to you I say, <span class="contentment  color">I am not putting any other burden on you.</span><br/>
               			25. Nevertheless, hold that which you have firmly until I
               				come.<br/>
               			26. <span class="contentment praise color">He who overcomes, and he who keeps my works to the end, to him
                  				I will give authority over the nations.</span><br/>
               			27. <span class="anger violence color">He will rule them with a rod of iron, shattering them like
                  				clay pots</span>;as I also have received of my Father:<br/>
               			28. and I will give him the morning star.<br/>
               			29. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the
               				assemblies.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 3</h2>
            <p>
               			1. “And to the angel of the assembly in Sardis write:“He who has
               				the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars says these things:“I know your works,
               				that you have a reputation of being alive, but you are dead.<br/>
               			2. Wake up, and keep the things that remain, which you were about
               				to throw away, for I have found no works of yours perfected before my God.<br/>
               			3. Remember therefore how you have received and heard. Keep it and
               				repent. If therefore you won’t watch, <span class="anger violence color">I will come as a thief, and you won’t know
                  				what hour I will come upon you.</span><br/>
               			4. Nevertheless you have a few names in Sardis that didn’t defile
               				their garments. <span class="contentment praise color">They will walk with me in white, for they are worthy.</span><br/>
               			5. <span class="contentment praise color">He who overcomes will be arrayed in white garments, and I will
                  				in no way blot his name out of the book of life, and I will confess his name before
                  				my Father, and before his angels.</span><br/>
               			6. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the
               				assemblies.<br/>
               			7. “To the angel of the assembly in Philadelphia write:“He who is
               				holy, he who is true, he who has the key of David, he who opens and no one can
               shut,
               				and who shuts and no one opens, says these things:<br/>
               			8. “I know your works, behold, I have set before you an open door,
               				which no one can shut, that you have a little power, and kept my word, and didn’t
               				deny my name.<br/>
               			9. Behold, I give some of the synagogue of Satan, of those who say
               				they are Jews, and they are not, but lie. <span class="anger boasting color">Behold, I will make them to come and
                  				worship before your feet, and to know that I have loved you.</span><br/>
               			10. Because you kept my command to endure, I also will keep you
               				from the hour of testing which is to come on the whole world, to test those who
               				dwell on the earth.<br/>
               			11. I am coming quickly! Hold firmly that which you have, so that
               				no one takes your crown.<br/>
               			12. He who overcomes, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my
               				God, and he will go out from there no more. I will write on him the name of my
               God
               				and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of
               				heaven from my God, and my own new name.<br/>
               			13. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the
               				assemblies.<br/>
               			14. “To the angel of the assembly in Laodicea write:“The Amen, the
               				Faithful and True Witness, the Beginning of God’s creation, says these things:<br/>
               			15. “I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish
               				you were cold or hot.<br/>
               			16. <span class="anger violence color">So, because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will
                  				vomit you out of my mouth.</span><br/>
               			17. Because you say, ‘I am rich, and have gotten riches, and have
               				need of nothing;’ and don’t know that <span class="anger righteousness color"> you are the wretched one, miserable, poor,
                  				blind, and naked;</span><br/>
               			18. I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, that you
               				may become rich; and white garments, that you may clothe yourself, and that the
               				shame of your nakedness may not be revealed; and eye salve to anoint your eyes,
               that
               				you may see.<br/>
               			19. As many as I love, I reprove and chasten. Be zealous
               				therefore, and repent.<br/>
               			20. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my
               				voice and opens the door, then I will come in to him, and will dine with him,
               and he
               				with me.<br/>
               			21. He who overcomes, I will give to him to sit down with me on my
               				throne, as I also overcame, and sat down with my Father on his throne.<br/>
               			22. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the
               				assemblies.”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 4</h2>
            <p>
               			1. After these things I looked and saw a door opened in heaven, and
               				the first voice that I heard, like a trumpet speaking with me, was one saying,
               “Come
               				up here, and I will show you the things which must happen after this.”<br/>
               			2. Immediately I was in the Spirit. Behold, there was a throne set
               				in heaven, and one sitting on the throne<br/>
               			3. that looked like a jasper stone and a sardius. There was a
               				rainbow around the throne, like an emerald to look at.<br/>
               			4. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones. On the thrones were
               				twenty-four elders sitting, dressed in white garments, with crowns of gold on
               their
               				heads.<br/>
               			5. Out of the throne proceed lightnings, sounds, and thunders.
               				There were seven lamps of fire burning before his throne, which are the seven
               				Spirits of God.<br/>
               			6. Before the throne was something like a sea of glass, similar to
               				crystal. In the middle of the throne, and around the throne were four living
               				creatures full of eyes before and behind.<br/>
               			7. The first creature was like a lion, and the second creature like
               				a calf, and the third creature had a face like a man, and the fourth was like
               a
               				flying eagle.<br/>
               			8. The four living creatures, each one of them having six wings,
               				are full of eyes around and within. They have no rest day and night, saying, <span class="joy praise color">“Holy,
                  				holy, holy is the Lord God, the Almighty, who was and who is and who is to
                  				come!”</span><br/>
               			9. When the living creatures <span class="joy praise color">give glory, honor, and thanks to him
                  				who sits on the throne</span>, to him who lives forever and ever,<br/>
               			10. the twenty-four elders fall down before him who sits on the
               				throne, and worship him who lives forever and ever, and throw their crowns before
               				the throne, saying,<br/>
               			11. <span class="joy praise color">“Worthy are you, our Lord and God, the Holy One, to receive
                  				the glory, the honor, and the power, for you created all things, and because of
                  your
                  				desire they existed, and were created!”</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 5</h2>
            <p>
               			1. I saw, in the right hand of him who sat on the throne, a book
               				written inside and outside, sealed shut with seven seals.<br/>
               			2. I saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, “Who is
               				worthy to open the book, and to break its seals?”<br/>
               			3. No one in heaven above, or on the earth, or under the earth, was
               				able to open the book or to look in it.<br/>
               			4. Then <span class="sorrow righteousness color">I wept much, because no one was found worthy to open the
                  				book or to look in it.</span><br/>
               			5. One of the elders said to me, “<span class="contentment boasting color">Don’t weep. Behold, the Lion who
                  				is of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome</span>: he who opens the book and
               				its seven seals.”<br/>
               			6. I saw in the middle of the throne and of the four living
               				creatures, and in the middle of the elders, a Lamb standing, as though it had
               been
               				slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God,
               sent
               				out into all the earth.<br/>
               			7. Then he came, and he took it out of the right hand of him who
               				sat on the throne.<br/>
               			8. Now when he had taken the book, the four living creatures and
               				the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each one having a harp, and
               golden
               				bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints.<br/>
               			9. They sang a new song, saying,“<span class="joy praise color">You are worthy to take the bookand
                  				to open its seals</span>:<span class="sorrow praise color">for you were killed,and bought us for God with your blood</span>out of
               				every tribe, language, people, and nation,<br/>
               			10. and made us kings and priests to our God,and we will reign on
               				the earth.”<br/>
               			11. I saw, and I heard something like a voice of many angels
               				around the throne, the living creatures, and the elders. The number of them was
               ten
               				thousands of ten thousands, and thousands of thousands;<br/>
               			12. saying with a loud voice, “<span class="joy praise color">Worthy is the Lamb who has been
                  				killed to receive the power, wealth, wisdom, strength, honor, glory, and
                  				blessing!</span>”<br/>
               			13. I heard every created thing which is in heaven, on the earth,
               				under the earth, on the sea, and everything in them, saying, “<span class="joy praise color">To him who sits on the
                  				throne, and to the Lamb be the blessing, the honor, the glory, and the dominion,
                  				forever and ever! Amen!</span>”<br/>
               			14. The four living creatures said, “Amen!” Then the
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 6</h2>
            <p>
               			1. I saw that the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard
               				one of the four living creatures saying, as with a voice of thunder, “Come and
               				see!”<br/>
               			2. And behold, a white horse, and he who sat on it had a bow. A
               				crown was given to him, and <span class="anger violence color">he came out conquering, and to conquer</span>.<br/>
               			3. When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living
               				creature saying, “Come!”<br/>
               			4. Another came out: a red horse. To him who sat on it was given
               				power to take peace from the earth, and <span class="anger violence color">that they should kill one another</span>. There was
               				given to him a great sword.<br/>
               			5. When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature
               				saying, “Come and see!” And behold, a black horse, and he who sat on it had a
               				balance in his hand.<br/>
               			6. I heard a voice in the middle of the four living creatures
               				saying, “A choenix of wheat for a denarius, and three choenix of barley for a
               				denarius! Don’t damage the oil and the wine!”<br/>
               			7. When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the fourth living
               				creature saying, “Come and see!”<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger violence color">And behold, a pale horse, and the name of he who sat on it was
                  				Death. Hades followed with him. Authority over one fourth of the earth, to kill
                  with
                  				the sword, with famine, with death, and by the wild animals of the earth was given
                  				to him.</span><br/>
               			9. When he opened the fifth seal, I saw underneath the altar the
               				souls of <span class="sorrow violence color">those who had been killed for the Word of God</span>, and for the testimony of the
               				Lamb which they had.<br/>
               			10. They cried with a loud voice, saying, “<span class="sorrow petitioning color">How long, Master, the
                  				holy and true, until you judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the
                  				earth?</span>”<br/>
               			11. A long white robe was given to each of them. They were told
               				that they should rest yet for a while, until their fellow servants and their
               				brothers, who <span class="anger violence color">would also be killed even as they were</span>, should complete their
               				course.<br/>
               			12. I saw when he opened the sixth seal, and there was a great
               				earthquake. The sun became black as sackcloth made of hair, and the whole moon
               				became as blood.<br/>
               			13. <span class="anger violence color">The stars of the sky fell to the earth, like a fig tree
                  				dropping its unripe figs when it is shaken by a great wind.</span><br/>
               			14. <span class="anger violence color">The sky was removed like a scroll when it is rolled up. Every
                  				mountain and island were moved out of their places.</span><br/>
               			15. The kings of the earth, the princes, the commanding officers,
               				the rich, the strong, and every slave and free person, <span class="anger fear color">hid themselves in the caves
                  				and in the rocks of the mountains.</span><br/>
               			16. They told the mountains and the rocks, “<span class="sorrow fear pleading color">Fall on us, and hide
                  				us from the face of him who sits on the throne</span>, and from <span class="anger righteousness color">the wrath of the Lamb</span>,<br/>
               			17. for the great day of his wrath has come; and <span class="sorrow anxiety color">who is able to
                  				stand?</span>”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 7</h2>
            <p>
               			1. After this, I saw four angels standing at the four corners of
               				the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, so that no wind would blow on
               the
               				earth, or on the sea, or on any tree.<br/>
               			2. I saw another angel ascend from the sunrise, having the seal of
               				the living God. He cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given
               				to harm the earth and the sea,<br/>
               			3. saying, “Don’t harm the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees,
               				until we have sealed the bondservants of our God on their foreheads!”<br/>
               			4. I heard the number of those who were sealed, one hundred
               				forty-four thousand, sealed out of every tribe of the children of Israel:<br/>
               			5. of the tribe of Judah twelve thousand were sealed,of the tribe
               				of Reuben twelve thousand,of the tribe of Gad twelve thousand,<br/>
               			6. of the tribe of Asher twelve thousand,of the tribe of Naphtali
               				twelve thousand,of the tribe of Manasseh twelve thousand,<br/>
               			7. of the tribe of Simeon twelve thousand,of the tribe of Levi
               				twelve thousand,of the tribe of Issachar twelve thousand,<br/>
               			8. of the tribe of Zebulun twelve thousand,of the tribe of Joseph
               				twelve thousand, andof the tribe of Benjamin twelve thousand were sealed.<br/>
               			9. After these things I looked, and behold, a great multitude,
               				which no man could count, out of every nation and of all tribes, peoples, and
               				languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, dressed in white robes,
               				with palm branches in their hands.<br/>
               			10. They cried with a loud voice, saying, “<span class="joy praise color">Salvation be to our
                  				God, who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb!</span>”<br/>
               			11. All the angels were standing around the throne, the elders,
               				and the four living creatures; and they fell on their faces before his throne,
               and
               				worshiped God,<br/>
               			12. saying, “<span class="joy praise color">Amen! Blessing, glory, wisdom, thanksgiving, honor,
                  				power, and might, be to our God forever and ever! Amen.</span>”<br/>
               			13. One of the elders answered, saying to me, “These who are
               				arrayed in the white robes, who are they, and where did they come from?”<br/>
               			14. I told him, “My lord, you know.”He said to me, “These are
               				those who came out of the great tribulation. They washed their robes, and made
               them
               				white in the Lamb’s blood.<br/>
               			15. Therefore they are before the throne of God, they serve him
               				day and night in his temple. He who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle
               				over them.<br/>
               			16. <span class="contentment boasting color">They will never be hungry or thirsty any more. The sun won’t
                  				beat on them, nor any heat</span>;<br/>
               			17. for <span class="joy praise color">the Lamb who is in the middle of the throne shepherds them
                  				and leads them to springs of life-giving waters. And God will wipe away every
                  tear
                  				from their eyes.</span>”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 8</h2>
            <p>
               			1. When he opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for
               				about half an hour.<br/>
               			2. I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets
               				were given to them.<br/>
               			3. Another angel came and stood over the altar, having a golden
               				censer. Much incense was given to him, that he should add it to the prayers of
               all
               				the saints on the golden altar which was before the throne.<br/>
               			4. The smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, went
               				up before God out of the angel’s hand.<br/>
               			5. The angel took the censer, and he filled it with the fire of the
               				altar, then threw it on the earth. <span class="anger violence color">Thunders, sounds, lightnings, and an earthquake
                  				followed.</span><br/>
               			6. The seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves
               				to sound.<br/>
               			7. The first sounded, and <span class="anger violence color">there followed hail and fire, mixed with
                  				blood</span>, and they were thrown to the earth. <span class="anger violence color">One third of the earth was burned up, and
                  				one third of the trees were burned up, and all green grass was burned up.</span><br/>
               			8. The second angel sounded, and <span class="anger violence color">something like a great burning
                  				mountain was thrown into the sea. One third of the sea became blood,</span><br/>
               			9. and <span class="anger violence color">one third of the living creatures which were in the sea
                  				died. One third of the ships were destroyed.</span><br/>
               			10. The third angel sounded, and a great star fell from the sky,
               				burning like a torch, and it fell on one third of the rivers, and on the springs
               of
               				the waters.<br/>
               			11. The name of the star is called “Wormwood.” One third of the
               				waters became wormwood. <span class="anger violence color">Many people died from the waters</span>, because they were made
               				bitter.<br/>
               			12. The fourth angel sounded, and <span class="anger violence color">one third of the sun was struck,
                  				and one third of the moon, and one third of the stars</span>; so that one third of them
               				would be darkened, and the day wouldn’t shine for one third of it, and the night
               in
               				the same way.<br/>
               			13. I saw, and I heard an eagle, flying in mid heaven, saying with
               				a loud voice, “<span class="sorrow fear color">Woe! Woe! Woe for those who dwell on the earth,</span> because of the other
               				voices of the trumpets of the three angels, who are yet to sound!”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 9</h2>
            <p>
               			1. The fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star from the sky which had
               				fallen to the earth. The key to the pit of the abyss was given to him.<br/>
               			2. He opened the pit of the abyss, and smoke went up out of the
               				pit, like the smoke from a burning furnace. The sun and the air were darkened
               				because of the smoke from the pit.<br/>
               			3. Then out of the smoke came locusts on the earth, and power was
               				given to them, as the scorpions of the earth have power.<br/>
               			4. <span class="anger violence color">They were told that they should not hurt the grass of the earth,
                  				neither any green thing, neither any tree, but only those people who don’t have
                  				God’s seal on their foreheads.</span><br/>
               			5. They were given power, not to kill them, but <span class="anger violence color">to torment them for
                  				five months. Their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it strikes
                  a
                  				person.</span><br/>
               			6. <span class="anger violence color">In those days people will seek death, and will in no way find
                  				it. They will desire to die, and death will flee from them.</span><br/>
               			7. The shapes of the locusts were like horses prepared for war. On
               				their heads were something like golden crowns, and their faces were like people’s
               				faces.<br/>
               			8. They had hair like women’s hair, and their teeth were like those
               				of lions.<br/>
               			9. They had breastplates, like breastplates of iron. The sound of
               				their wings was like the sound of chariots, or of many horses rushing to war.<br/>
               			10. They have tails like those of scorpions, and stings. In their
               				tails <span class="anger violence color">they have power to harm men for five months.</span><br/>
               			11. They have over them as king the angel of the abyss. His name
               				in Hebrew is “Abaddon”, but in Greek, he has the name “Apollyon”. <br/>
               			12. The first woe is past. Behold, <span class="sorrow violence color">there are still two woes coming
                  				after this.</span><br/>
               			13. The sixth angel sounded. I heard a voice from the horns of the
               				golden altar which is before God,<br/>
               			14. saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, “Free the four
               				angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates!”<br/>
               			15. The four angels were freed who had been prepared for that hour
               				and day and month and year, <span class="anger violence color">so that they might kill one third of mankind.</span><br/>
               			16. The number of the armies of the horsemen was two hundred
               				million. I heard the number of them.<br/>
               			17. Thus I saw the horses in the vision, and those who sat on
               				them, having breastplates of fiery red, hyacinth blue, and sulfur yellow; and
               the
               				horses’ heads resembled lions’ heads. Out of their mouths proceed fire, smoke,
               and
               				sulfur.<br/>
               			18. <span class="anger violence color">By these three plagues were one third of mankind killed</span>: by
               				the fire, the smoke, and the sulfur, which proceeded out of their mouths.<br/>
               			19. For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their
               				tails. For their tails are like serpents, and have heads, and with them <span class="anger violence color">they
                  				harm.</span><br/>
               			20. The rest of mankind, who were not killed with these plagues,
               				didn’t repent of the works of their hands, that they wouldn’t worship demons,
               and
               				the idols of gold, and of silver, and of brass, and of stone, and of wood; which
               				can’t see, hear, or walk.<br/>
               			21. <span class="anger righteousness color">They didn’t repent of their murders, their sorceries, their
                  				sexual immorality, or their thefts.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 10</h2>
            <p>
               			1. I saw a mighty angel coming down out of the sky, clothed with a
               				cloud. A rainbow was on his head. His face was like the sun, and his feet like
               				pillars of fire.<br/>
               			2. He had in his hand a little open book. He set his right foot on
               				the sea, and his left on the land.<br/>
               			3. He cried with a loud voice, as a lion roars. When he cried, the
               				seven thunders uttered their voices.<br/>
               			4. When the seven thunders sounded, I was about to write; but I
               				heard a voice from the sky saying, “Seal up the things which the seven thunders
               				said, and don’t write them.”<br/>
               			5. The angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land lifted
               				up his right hand to the sky,<br/>
               			6. and swore by him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven
               				and the things that are in it, the earth and the things that are in it, and the
               sea
               				and the things that are in it, that there will no longer be delay,<br/>
               			7. but in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he is
               				about to sound, then the mystery of God is finished, as he declared to his servants,
               				the prophets.<br/>
               			8. The voice which I heard from heaven, again speaking with me,
               				said, “Go, take the book which is open in the hand of the angel who stands on
               the
               				sea and on the land.”<br/>
               			9. I went to the angel, telling him to give me the little book. He
               				said to me, “Take it, and eat it. It will make your stomach bitter, but in your
               				mouth it will be as sweet as honey.”<br/>
               			10. I took the little book out of the angel’s hand, and ate it.
               				It was as sweet as honey in my mouth. When I had eaten it, my stomach was made
               				bitter.<br/>
               			11. They told me, “You must prophesy again over many peoples,
               				nations, languages, and kings.”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 11</h2>
            <p>
               			1. A reed like a rod was given to me. Someone said, “Rise, and
               				measure God’s temple, and the altar, and those who worship in it.<br/>
               			2. Leave out the court which is outside of the temple, and don’t
               				measure it, for it has been given to the nations. They will tread the holy city
               				under foot for forty-two months.<br/>
               			3. I will give power to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy
               				one thousand two hundred sixty days, <span class="sorrow anxiety color">clothed in sackcloth.</span>”<br/>
               			4. These are the two olive trees and the two lamp stands, standing
               				before the Lord of the earth.<br/>
               			5. <span class="anger violence color">If anyone desires to harm them, fire proceeds out of their
                  				mouth and devours their enemies. If anyone desires to harm them, he must be killed
                  				in this way.</span><br/>
               			6. These have the power to shut up the sky, that it may not rain
               				during the days of their prophecy. <span class="anger violence color">They have power over the waters, to turn them
                  				into blood, and to strike the earth with every plague, as often as they desire.</span><br/>
               			7. When they have finished their testimony, <span class="anger violence color">the beast that comes
                  				up out of the abyss will make war with them, and overcome them, and kill them.</span><br/>
               			8. <span class="anger violence color">Their dead bodies will be in the street of the great city</span>,
               				which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was
               				crucified.<br/>
               			9. From among the peoples, tribes, languages, and nations, <span class="anger violence color">people
                  				will look at their dead bodies for three and a half days, and will not allow their
                  				dead bodies to be laid in a tomb.</span><br/>
               			10. <span class="joy boasting color">Those who dwell on the earth rejoice over them, and they will
                  				be glad.</span> They will give gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented
               				those who dwell on the earth.<br/>
               			11. After the three and a half days, the breath of life from God
               				entered into them, and they stood on their feet. <span class="fear anxiety color">Great fear fell on those who saw
                  				them.</span><br/>
               			12. I heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, “Come up
               				here!” They went up into heaven in the cloud, and their enemies saw them.<br/>
               			13. In that day there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the
               				city fell. <span class="fear praise violence color">Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were
                  				terrified, and gave glory to the God of heaven.</span><br/>
               			14. The second woe is past. Behold, <span class="sorrow anxiety color">the third woe comes
                  				quickly.</span><br/>
               			15. The seventh angel sounded, and great voices in heaven
               				followed, saying, “The kingdom of the world has become the Kingdom of our Lord,
               and
               				of his Christ. <span class="joy praise color">He will reign forever and ever!</span>”<br/>
               			16. The twenty-four elders, who sit on their thrones before God’s
               				throne, fell on their faces and worshiped God,<br/>
               			17. saying: “<span class="joy praise color">We give you thanks, Lord God, the Almighty, the one
                  				who is and who was; because you have taken your great power and reigned.</span><br/>
               			18. <span class="anger righteousness color">The nations were angry, and your wrath came,</span> as did the time
               				for the dead to be judged, and to give your bondservants the prophets, their reward,
               				as well as to the saints, and those who fear your name, to the small and the great,
               				and <span class="anger violence righteousness color">to destroy those who destroy the earth.</span>”<br/>
               			19. God’s temple that is in heaven was opened, and the ark of the
               				Lord’s covenant was seen in his temple. Lightnings, sounds, thunders, an earthquake,
               				and great hail followed.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 12</h2>
            <p>
               			1. A great sign was seen in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun,
               				and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars.<br/>
               			2. She was with child. She cried out in pain, laboring to give
               				birth.<br/>
               			3. Another sign was seen in heaven. Behold, a great red dragon,
               				having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven crowns.<br/>
               			4. His tail drew one third of the stars of the sky, and threw them
               				to the earth. <span class="anger violence color">The dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that
                  				when she gave birth he might devour her child.</span><br/>
               			5. She gave birth to a son, a male child, who is to rule all the
               				nations with a rod of iron. Her child was caught up to God, and to his throne.<br/>
               			6. <span class="fear anxiety color">The woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place
                  				prepared by God</span>, that there they may nourish her one thousand two hundred sixty
               				days.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger violence color">There was war in the sky. Michael and his angels made war on
                  				the dragon. The dragon and his angels made war.</span><br/>
               			8. They didn’t prevail. No place was found for them any more in
               				heaven.<br/>
               			9. The great dragon was thrown down, the old serpent, he who is
               				called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world. He was thrown down
               to
               				the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him.<br/>
               			10. I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, “Now the salvation,
               				the power, and the Kingdom of our God, and the authority of his Christ has come;
               for
               				the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them before our
               God
               				day and night.<br/>
               			11. They overcame him because of the Lamb’s blood, and because of
               				the word of their testimony. They didn’t love their life, even to death.<br/>
               			12. <span class="joy praise color">Therefore rejoice, heavens, and you who dwell in them.</span> <span class="sorrow anxiety color">Woe to
                  				the earth and to the sea, because the devil has gone down to you, having great
                  				wrath, knowing that he has but a short time.</span>”<br/>
               			13. When the dragon saw that he was thrown down to the earth, he
               				persecuted the woman who gave birth to the male child.<br/>
               			14. Two wings of the great eagle were given to the woman, that
               				she might fly into the wilderness to her place, so that she might be nourished
               for a
               				time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.<br/>
               			15. The serpent spewed water out of his mouth after the woman
               				like a river, <span class="anger violence color">that he might cause her to be carried away by the stream</span>.<br/>
               			16. <span class="joy praise color">The earth helped the woman</span>, and the earth opened its mouth
               				and swallowed up the river which the dragon spewed out of his mouth.<br/>
               			17. <span class="anger violence color">The dragon grew angry with the woman, and went away to make
                  				war with the rest of her offspring</span>, who keep God’s commandments and hold Jesus’
               				testimony.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 13</h2>
            <p>
               			1. Then I stood on the sand of the sea. I saw a beast coming up
               				out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads. On his horns were ten crowns,
               and
               				on his heads, blasphemous names.<br/>
               			2. The beast which I saw was like a leopard, and his feet were
               				like those of a bear, and his mouth like the mouth of a lion. The dragon gave
               him
               				his power, his throne, and great authority.<br/>
               			3. One of his heads looked like it had been wounded fatally. His
               				fatal wound was healed, and the whole earth marveled at the beast.<br/>
               			4. They worshiped the dragon, because he gave his authority to the
               				beast, and they worshiped the beast, saying, “<span class="joy praise color">Who is like the beast? Who is able to
                  				make war with him?</span>”<br/>
               			5. A mouth speaking great things and blasphemy was given to him.
               				<span class="anger violence color">Authority to make war for forty-two months was given to him.</span><br/>
               			6. <span class="anger boasting color">He opened his mouth for blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his
                  				name, and his dwelling, those who dwell in heaven.</span><br/>
               			7. <span class="anger violence color">It was given to him to make war with the saints, and to
                  				overcome them.</span> Authority over every tribe, people, language, and nation was given to
               				him.<br/>
               			8. All who dwell on the earth will worship him, everyone whose
               				name has not been written from the foundation of the world in the book of life
               of
               				the Lamb who has been killed.<br/>
               			9. If anyone has an ear, let him hear.<br/>
               			10. If anyone is to go into captivity, he will go into captivity.
               				<span class="sorrow violence color">If anyone is to be killed with the sword, he must be killed.</span> Here is the endurance
               				and the faith of the saints.<br/>
               			11. I saw another beast coming up out of the earth. He had two
               				horns like a lamb, and he spoke like a dragon.<br/>
               			12. He exercises all the authority of the first beast in his
               				presence. He makes the earth and those who dwell in it to worship the first beast,
               				whose fatal wound was healed.<br/>
               			13. <span class="joy praise color">He performs great signs,</span> even making fire come down out of
               				the sky to the earth in the sight of people.<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger righteousness color">He deceives my own people</span> who dwell on the earth because of
               				the signs he was granted to do in front of the beast, saying to those who dwell
               on
               				the earth that they should make an image to the beast who had the sword wound
               and
               				lived.<br/>
               			15. It was given to him to give breath to it, to the image of the
               				beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and <span class="anger violence color">cause as many as wouldn’t
                  				worship the image of the beast to be killed.</span><br/>
               			16. He causes all, the small and the great, the rich and the
               				poor, and the free and the slave, to be given marks on their right hands, or on
               				their foreheads;<br/>
               			17. and that no one would be able to buy or to sell, unless he
               				has that mark, which is the name of the beast or the number of his name.<br/>
               			18. Here is wisdom. He who has understanding, let him calculate
               				the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man. His number is six hundred
               				sixty-six.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 14</h2>
            <p>
               			1. I saw, and behold, the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with
               				him a number, one hundred forty-four thousand, having his name, and the name of
               his
               				Father, written on their foreheads.<br/>
               			2. I heard a sound from heaven, like the sound of many waters, and
               				like the sound of a great thunder. The sound which I heard was like that of harpists
               				playing on their harps.<br/>
               			3. They sing a new song before the throne, and before the four
               				living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the song except the one hundred
               				forty-four thousand, those who had been redeemed out of the earth.<br/>
               			4. These are those who were not defiled with women, for they are
               				virgins. These are those who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. These were redeemed
               				by Jesus from among men, the first fruits to God and to the Lamb.<br/>
               			5. <span class="joy praise color">In their mouth was found no lie, for they are blameless.</span><br/>
               			6. I saw an angel flying in mid heaven, having an eternal Good
               				News to proclaim to those who dwell on the earth, and to every nation, tribe,
               				language, and people.<br/>
               			7. He said with a loud voice, “<span class="fear? petitioning color">Fear the Lord, and give him glory</span>;
               				for the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the heaven, the earth,
               				the sea, and the springs of waters!”<br/>
               			8. Another, a second angel, followed, saying, “Babylon the great
               				has fallen, which has made all the nations to <span class="anger violence color">drink of the wine of the wrath of her
                  				sexual immorality.</span>”<br/>
               			9. Another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a great
               				voice, “If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives a mark on his
               				forehead, or on his hand,<br/>
               			10. <span class="anger violence color">he also will drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is
                  				prepared unmixed in the cup of his anger. He will be tormented with fire and sulfur</span>
               				in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb.<br/>
               			11. <span class="anger violence color">The smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever.</span> They
               				have no rest day and night, those who worship the beast and his image, and whoever
               				receives the mark of his name.<br/>
               			12. Here is the perseverance of the saints, those who keep the
               				commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.”<br/>
               			13. I heard a voice from heaven saying, “Write, ‘<span class="joy praise color">Blessed are the
                  				dead who die in the Lord</span> from now on.’”“Yes,” says the Spirit, “that they may rest
               				from their labors; for their works follow with them.”<br/>
               			14. I looked, and saw a white cloud, and on the cloud one sitting
               				like a son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp
               				sickle.<br/>
               			15. Another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud
               				voice to him who sat on the cloud, “Send your sickle, and reap; for the hour to
               reap
               				has come; for the harvest of the earth is ripe!”<br/>
               			16. He who sat on the cloud thrust his sickle on the earth, and
               				the earth was reaped.<br/>
               			17. Another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven. He
               				also had a sharp sickle.<br/>
               			18. Another angel came out from the altar, he who has power over
               				fire, and he called with a great voice to him who had the sharp sickle, saying,
               				“Send your sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for
               the
               				earth’s grapes are fully ripe!”<br/>
               			19. The angel thrust his sickle into the earth, and gathered the
               				vintage of the earth, and threw it into <span class="anger violence color">the great wine press of the wrath of
                  				God.</span><br/>
               			20. The wine press was trodden outside of the city, and <span class="anger violence color">blood
                  				came out of the wine press</span>, even to the bridles of the horses, as far as one
               				thousand six hundred stadia.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 15</h2>
            <p>
               			1. I saw another <span class="joy praise color">great and marvelous sign</span> in the sky: seven angels
               				having the seven last plagues, for <span class="contentment praise color">in them God’s wrath is finished</span>.<br/>
               			2. I saw something like a sea of glass mixed with fire, and those
               				who overcame the beast, his image, and the number of his name, standing on the
               sea
               				of glass, having harps of God.<br/>
               			3. They sang the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song
               				of the Lamb, saying,“<span class="joy praise color">Great and marvelous are your works, Lord God, the
                  				Almighty!Righteous and true are your ways, you King of the nations.</span><br/>
               			4. <span class="joy praise color">Who wouldn’t fear you, Lord,and glorify your name?For you only
                  				are holy. For all the nations will come and worship before you. For your righteous
                  				acts have been revealed.</span>”<br/>
               			5. After these things I looked, and the temple of the tabernacle
               				of the testimony in heaven was opened.<br/>
               			6. The seven angels who had the seven plagues came out, clothed
               				with pure, bright linen, and wearing golden sashes around their breasts.<br/>
               			7. One of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven
               				<span class="anger violence color">golden bowls full of the wrath of God</span>, who lives forever and ever.<br/>
               			8. The temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and
               				from his power. No one was able to enter into the temple until the seven plagues
               of
               				the seven angels would be finished.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 16</h2>
            <p>
               			1. I heard a loud voice out of the temple, saying to the seven
               				angels, “Go and <span class="anger violence color">pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God on the earth!</span>”<br/>
               			2. The first went, and poured out his bowl into the earth, and <span class="anger violence color">it
                  				became a harmful and evil sore on the people</span> who had the mark of the beast, and who
               				worshiped his image.<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger violence color">The second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and it
                  				became blood as of a dead man. Every living thing in the sea died.</span><br/>
               			4. <span class="anger violence color">The third poured out his bowl into the rivers and springs of
                  				water, and they became blood.</span><br/>
               			5. I heard the angel of the waters saying, “<span class="joy praise color">You are righteous, who
                  				are and who were, O Holy One, because you have judged these things.</span><br/>
               			6. <span class="anger violence color">For they poured out the blood of saints and prophets, and you
                  				have given them blood to drink. They deserve this.</span>”<br/>
               			7. I heard the altar saying, “<span class="joy praise color">Yes, Lord God, the Almighty, true
                  				and righteous are your judgments.</span>”<br/>
               			8. The fourth poured out his bowl on the sun, and <span class="anger violence color">it was given to
                  				him to scorch men with fire.</span><br/>
               			9. <span class="anger righteousness color"> People were scorched with great heat, and people blasphemed the
                  				name of God who has the power over these plagues.</span> They didn’t repent and give him
               				glory.<br/>
               			10. The fifth poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and
               				his kingdom was darkened. <span class="sorrow violence color">They gnawed their tongues because of the pain,</span><br/>
               			11. and <span class="sorrow violence color">they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains
                  				and their sores.</span> They didn’t repent of their works.<br/>
               			12. The sixth poured out his bowl on the great river, the
               				Euphrates. Its water was dried up, that the way might be prepared for the kings
               that
               				come from the sunrise.<br/>
               			13. I saw coming out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the
               				mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean
               				spirits, something like frogs;<br/>
               			14. for they are spirits of demons, performing signs; which go
               				out to the kings of the whole inhabited earth, to gather them together for the
               war
               				of that great day of God, the Almighty.<br/>
               			15. “Behold, I come like a thief. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed is he who watches</span>, and
               				keeps his clothes, so that he doesn’t walk naked, and they see his shame.”<br/>
               			16. He gathered them together into the place which is called in
               				Hebrew, “Megiddo”.<br/>
               			17. The seventh poured out his bowl into the air. A loud voice
               				came out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, “It is done!”<br/>
               			18. There were lightnings, sounds, and thunders; and there was a
               				great earthquake, such as has not happened since there were men on the earth,
               so
               				great an earthquake, and so mighty.<br/>
               			19. The great city was divided into three parts, and the cities
               				of the nations fell. Babylon the great was remembered in the sight of God, to
               give
               				<span class="anger violence color">to her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.</span><br/>
               			20. Every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.<br/>
               			21. Great hailstones, about the weight of a talent, came down out
               				of the sky on people. People blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail,
               for
               				this plague is exceedingly severe.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 17</h2>
            <p>
               			1. One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke
               				with me, saying, “Come here. I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute
               				who sits on many waters,<br/>
               			2. <span class="anger righteousness color">with whom the kings of the earth committed sexual immorality.
                  				Those who dwell in the earth were made drunken with the wine of her sexual
                  				immorality.</span>”<br/>
               			3. He carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness. I saw a
               				woman sitting on a scarlet-colored beast, full of blasphemous names, having seven
               				heads and ten horns.<br/>
               			4. The woman was dressed in purple and scarlet, and decked with
               				gold and precious stones and pearls, having in her hand <span class="anger righteousness color">a golden cup full of
                  				abominations and the impurities of the sexual immorality of the earth.</span><br/>
               			5. And on her forehead a name was written, “MYSTERY, BABYLON THE
               				GREAT, THE MOTHER OF THE PROSTITUTES AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.”<br/>
               			6. I saw <span class="sorrow violence color">the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and with
                  				the blood of the martyrs of Jesus.</span> When I saw her, I wondered with great
               				amazement.<br/>
               			7. The angel said to me, “Why do you wonder? I will tell you the
               				mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carries her, which has the seven heads
               				and the ten horns.<br/>
               			8. The beast that you saw was, and is not; and <span class="anger violence color">is about to come up
                  				out of the abyss and to go into destruction.</span> Those who dwell on the earth and whose
               				names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world
               				will marvel when they see that the beast was, and is not, and shall be present.<br/>
               			9. Here is the mind that has wisdom. The seven heads are seven
               				mountains on which the woman sits.<br/>
               			10. They are seven kings. Five have fallen, the one is, the other
               				has not yet come. When he comes, he must continue a little while.<br/>
               			11. The beast that was, and is not, is himself also an eighth,
               				and is of the seven; and <span class="anger violence color">he goes to destruction.</span><br/>
               			12. The ten horns that you saw are ten kings who have received no
               				kingdom as yet, but they receive authority as kings with the beast for one hour.<br/>
               			13. These have one mind, and they give their power and authority
               				to the beast.<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger violence color">These will war against the Lamb</span>, and the Lamb will overcome
               				them, <span class="joy praise color">for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings, and those who are with him are
                  				called chosen and faithful.</span>”<br/>
               			15. He said to me, “The waters which you saw, where the
               				prostitute sits, are peoples, multitudes, nations, and languages.<br/>
               			16. The ten horns which you saw, and the beast, <span class="anger violence color">these will hate
                  				the prostitute, will make her desolate, will strip her naked, will eat her flesh,
                  				and will burn her utterly with fire.</span><br/>
               			17. For God has put in their hearts to do what he has in mind, to
               				be of one mind, and to give their kingdom to the beast, until the words of God
               				should be accomplished.<br/>
               			18. The woman whom you saw is the great city, which reigns over
               				the kings of the earth.”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 18</h2>
            <p>
               			1. After these things, I saw another angel coming down out of the
               				sky, having great authority. <span class="joy praise color">The earth was illuminated with his glory.</span><br/>
               			2. He cried with a mighty voice, saying, “<span class="sorrow righteousness color">Fallen, fallen is
                  				Babylon the great, and she has become a habitation of demons, a prison of every
                  				unclean spirit, and a prison of every unclean and hateful bird!</span><br/>
               			3. <span class="anger righteousness color">For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her
                  				sexual immorality, the kings of the earth committed sexual immorality with her,
                  and
                  				the merchants of the earth grew rich from the abundance of her luxury.</span>”<br/>
               			4. I heard another voice from heaven, saying, “Come out of her, my
               				people, that you have no participation in her sins, and that you don’t receive
               of
               				her plagues,<br/>
               			5. for <span class="anger righteousness color">her sins have reached to the sky, and God has remembered
                  				her iniquities.</span><br/>
               			6. Return to her just as she returned, and repay her double as she
               				did, and according to her works. In the cup which she mixed, mix to her double.<br/>
               			7. <span class="anger violence righteousness color">However much she glorified herself, and grew wanton, so much
                  				give her of torment and mourning.</span> For she says in her heart, ‘I sit a queen, and am
               				no widow, and will in no way see mourning.’<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger violence color">Therefore in one day her plagues will come: death, mourning,
                  				and famine; and she will be utterly burned with fire</span>; <span class="anger praise color">for the Lord God who has
                  				judged her is strong</span>.<br/>
               			9. <span class="anger righteousness color">The kings of the earth who committed sexual immorality and
                  				lived wantonly with her will weep and wail over her</span>, when they look at the smoke of
               				her burning,<br/>
               			10. <span class="sorrow righteousness color">standing far away for the fear of her torment, saying, ‘Woe,
                  				woe, the great city, Babylon, the strong city!</span> For your judgment has come in one
               				hour.’<br/>
               			11. <span class="sorrow righteousness color">The merchants of the earth weep and mourn over her</span>, for no
               				one buys their merchandise any more:<br/>
               			12. merchandise of gold, silver, precious stones, pearls, fine
               				linen, purple, silk, scarlet, all expensive wood, every vessel of ivory, every
               				vessel made of most precious wood, and of brass, and iron, and marble;<br/>
               			13. and cinnamon, incense, perfume, frankincense, wine, olive
               				oil, fine flour, wheat, sheep, horses, chariots, and people’s bodies and souls.<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger righteousness color">The fruits which your soul lusted after have been lost to
                  				you. All things that were dainty and sumptuous have perished from you, and you
                  will
                  				find them no more at all.</span><br/>
               			15. The merchants of these things, who were made rich by her,
               				<span class="fear anxiety color">will stand far away for the fear of her torment, weeping and mourning,</span><br/>
               			16. saying, ‘<span class="sorrow anxiety color">Woe, woe, the great city</span>, she who was dressed in
               				fine linen, purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold and precious stones and
               				pearls!<br/>
               			17. For in an hour such great riches are made desolate.’ Every
               				ship master, and everyone who sails anywhere, and mariners, and as many as gain
               				their living by sea, stood far away,<br/>
               			18. and cried out as they looked at the smoke of her burning,
               				saying, ‘What is like the great city?’<br/>
               			19. <span class="sorrow anxiety color">They cast dust on their heads, and cried, weeping and
                  				mourning, saying, ‘Woe, woe, the great city, in which all who had their ships
                  in the
                  				sea were made rich by reason of her great wealth!’ For she is made desolate in
                  one
                  				hour.</span><br/>
               			20. “<span class="joy praise petitioning color">Rejoice over her, O heaven, you saints, apostles, and
                  				prophets; for God has judged your judgment on her.</span>”<br/>
               			21. A mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and
               				cast it into the sea, saying, “Thus with violence will Babylon, the great city,
               be
               				thrown down, and will be found no more at all.<br/>
               			22. The voice of harpists, minstrels, flute players, and
               				trumpeters will be heard no more at all in you. No craftsman, of whatever craft,
               				will be found any more at all in you. The sound of a mill will be heard no more
               at
               				all in you.<br/>
               			23. The light of a lamp will shine no more at all in you. The
               				voice of the bridegroom and of the bride will be heard no more at all in you;
               for
               				your merchants were the princes of the earth; for with your sorcery all the nations
               				were deceived.<br/>
               			24. <span class="anger righteousness color">In her was found the blood of prophets and of saints, and of
                  				all who have been slain on the earth.</span>”
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 19</h2>
            <p>
               			1. After these things I heard something like a loud voice of a
               				great multitude in heaven, saying, “<span class="joy praise color">Hallelujah! Salvation, power, and glory belong
                  				to our God</span>;<br/>
               			2. for his judgments are true and righteous. For he has judged the
               				<span class="anger violence righteousness color">great prostitute, who corrupted the earth with her sexual immorality, and he has
                  				avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.</span>”<br/>
               			3. A second said, “<span class="joy violence righteousness color">Hallelujah! Her smoke goes up forever and
                  				ever.</span>”<br/>
               			4. The twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down
               				and worshiped God who sits on the throne, saying, “<span class="joy praise color">Amen! Hallelujah!</span>”<br/>
               			5. A voice came from the throne, saying, “<span class="joy praise color">Give praise to our God,
                  				all you his servants, you who fear him, the small and the great!</span>”<br/>
               			6. I heard something like the voice of a great multitude, and like
               				the voice of many waters, and like the voice of mighty thunders, saying,
               				“<span class="joy praise color">Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty, reigns!</span><br/>
               			7.  Let’s rejoice and be exceedingly glad, and let’s give the glory
               				to him. For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself
               				ready.”<br/>
               			8. It was given to her that she would array herself in bright,
               				pure, fine linen: for the fine linen is <span class="joy righteousness color">the righteous acts of the saints.</span><br/>
               			9. He said to me, “Write, ‘<span class="joy praise color">Blessed are those who are invited to
                  				the marriage supper of the Lamb.</span>’” He said to me, “These are true words of God.”<br/>
               			10. I fell down before his feet to worship him. He said to me,
               				“Look! Don’t do it! I am a fellow bondservant with you and with your brothers
               who
               				hold the testimony of Jesus. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">Worship God, for the testimony of Jesus is the Spirit
                  				of Prophecy.</span>”<br/>
               			11. I saw the heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and he
               				who sat on it is called Faithful and True. <span class="anger righteousness color">In righteousness he judges and makes
                  				war.</span><br/>
               			12. His eyes are a flame of fire, and on his head are many
               				crowns. He has names written and a name written which no one knows but he
               				himself.<br/>
               			13. He is clothed in a garment sprinkled with blood. His name is
               				called “The Word of God.”<br/>
               			14. The armies which are in heaven followed him on white horses,
               				clothed in white, pure, fine linen.<br/>
               			15. <span class="anger violence righteousness color">Out of his mouth proceeds a sharp, double-edged sword, that
                  				with it he should strike the nations. He will rule them with an iron rod. He treads
                  				the wine press of the fierceness of the wrath of God, the Almighty.</span><br/>
               			16. He has on his garment and on his thigh a name written, “KING
               				OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.”<br/>
               			17. I saw an angel standing in the sun. He cried with a loud
               				voice, saying to all the birds that fly in the sky, “Come! Be gathered together
               to
               				the great supper of God,<br/>
               			18. <span class="anger violence petitioning color">that you may eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains,
                  				the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses and of those who sit on them,
                  and
                  				the flesh of all men, both free and slave, small and great.</span>”<br/>
               			19. I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their
               				armies, gathered together <span class="anger violence color">to make war against him who sat on the horse</span>, and against
               				his army.<br/>
               			20. The beast was taken, and with him the false prophet who
               				worked the signs in his sight, with which he deceived those who had received the
               				mark of the beast and those who worshiped his image. <span class="anger violence color">These two were thrown alive
                  				into the lake of fire that burns with sulfur.</span><br/>
               			21. <span class="anger violence color">The rest were killed with the sword of him who sat on the
                  				horse, the sword which came out of his mouth. All the birds were filled with their
                  				flesh.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 20</h2>
            <p>
               			1. I saw an angel coming down out of heaven, having the key of the
               				abyss and a great chain in his hand.<br/>
               			2. He seized the dragon, the old serpent, which is the devil and
               				Satan, who deceives the whole inhabited earth, and <span class="anger righteousness color">bound him for a thousand
                  				years</span>,<br/>
               			3. <span class="anger violence color">and cast him into the abyss, and shut it, and sealed it over
                  				him, that he should deceive the nations no more</span>, until the thousand years were
               				finished. After this, he must be freed for a short time.<br/>
               			4. I saw thrones, and they sat on them, and judgment was given to
               				them. I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus,
               and
               				for the word of God, and such as didn’t worship the beast nor his image, and didn’t
               				receive the mark on their forehead and on their hand. <span class="joy righteousness color">They lived and reigned with
                  				Christ for a thousand years.</span><br/>
               			5. The rest of the dead didn’t live until the thousand years were
               				finished. This is the first resurrection.<br/>
               			6. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection.
                  				Over these, the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and
                  of
                  				Christ, and will reign with him one thousand years.</span><br/>
               			7. And after the thousand years, Satan will be released from his
               				prison,<br/>
               			8. and he will come out to deceive the nations which are in the
               				four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, <span class="anger violence color">to gather them together to the war</span>; the
               				number of whom is as the sand of the sea.<br/>
               			9. They went up over the width of the earth, and surrounded the
               				camp of the saints, and the beloved city. <span class="anger violence color">Fire came down out of heaven from God and
                  				devoured them.</span><br/>
               			10. <span class="anger violence color">The devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire
                  				and sulfur, where the beast and the false prophet are also. They will be tormented
                  				day and night forever and ever.</span><br/>
               			11. I saw a great white throne, and him who sat on it, from whose
               				face the earth and the heaven fled away. There was found no place for them.<br/>
               			12. I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the
               				throne, and they opened books. Another book was opened, which is the book of life.
               				The dead were judged out of the things which were written in the books, according
               to
               				their works.<br/>
               			13. The sea gave up the dead who were in it. Death and Hades gave
               				up the dead who were in them. They were judged, each one according to his works.<br/>
               			14. <span class="anger violence color">Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire.</span> This is
               				the second death, the lake of fire.<br/>
               			15. If anyone was not found written in the book of life, <span class="anger violence color">he was
                  				cast into the lake of fire.</span>
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 21</h2>
            <p>
               			1. I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and
               				the first earth have passed away, and the sea is no more.<br/>
               			2. I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven
               				from God, <span class="joy praise color">prepared like a bride adorned for her husband.</span><br/>
               			3. I heard a loud voice out of heaven saying, “<span class="joy petitioning praise color">Behold, God’s
                  				dwelling is with people, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people,
                  				and God himself will be with them as their God.</span><br/>
               			4. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Death will be no
               				more; neither will there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain, any more. The first
               				things have passed away.”<br/>
               			5. He who sits on the throne said,“Behold, I am making all things
               				new.”He said,“Write, for <span class="joy praise color">these words of God are faithful and true.</span>”<br/>
               			6. He said to me,“<span class="joy boasting color">I have become the Alpha and the Omega, the
                  				Beginning and the End. “It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning
                  and
                  				the End. I will give freely to him who is thirsty from the spring of the water
                  of
                  				life.</span><br/>
               			7. He who overcomes, I will give him these things. I will be his
               				God, and he will be my son.<br/>
               			8. <span class="anger righteousness violence color">But for the cowardly, unbelieving, sinners, abominable,
                  				murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their part is
                  in
                  				the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death.</span>”<br/>
               			9. One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls, who were
               				loaded with the seven last plagues came, and he spoke with me, saying, “Come here.
               I
               				will show you the wife, the Lamb’s bride.”<br/>
               			10. He carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high
               				mountain, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from
               				God,<br/>
               			11. having the glory of God. <span class="joy praise boasting color">Her light was like a most precious
                  				stone, as if it were a jasper stone, clear as crystal</span>;<br/>
               			12. having a great and high wall; having twelve gates, and at the
               				gates twelve angels; and names written on them, which are the names of the twelve
               				tribes of the children of Israel.<br/>
               			13. On the east were three gates; and on the north three gates;
               				and on the south three gates; and on the west three gates.<br/>
               			14. The wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them
               				twelve names of the twelve Apostles of the Lamb.<br/>
               			15. He who spoke with me had for a measure a golden reed to
               				measure the city, its gates, and its walls.<br/>
               			16. The city is square, and its length is as great as its width.
               				He measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand twelve stadia. Its length,
               				width, and height are equal.<br/>
               			17. Its wall is one hundred forty-four cubits, by the measure of
               				a man, that is, of an angel.<br/>
               			18. The construction of its wall was jasper. The city was pure
               				gold, like pure glass.<br/>
               			19. The foundations of the city’s wall were adorned with all
               				kinds of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire;
               the
               				third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald;<br/>
               			20. the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh,
               				chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprasus; the
               				eleventh, jacinth; and the twelfth, amethyst.<br/>
               			21. The twelve gates were twelve pearls. Each one of the gates
               				was made of one pearl. The street of the city was pure gold, like transparent
               				glass.<br/>
               			22. I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God, the Almighty, and
               				the Lamb, are its temple.<br/>
               			23. The city has no need for the sun or moon to shine, for the
               				very glory of God illuminated it, and its lamp is the Lamb.<br/>
               			24. <span class="joy praise color">The nations will walk in its light. The kings of the earth
                  				bring the glory and honor of the nations into it.</span><br/>
               			25. Its gates will in no way be shut by day (for there will be no
               				night there),<br/>
               			26. <span class="joy praise color">and they shall bring the glory and the honor of the nations
                  				into it so that they may enter.</span><br/>
               			27. There will in no way enter into it anything profane, or one
               				who causes an abomination or a lie, but only those who are written in the Lamb’s
               				book of life.
               		</p>
            <h2>Chapter: 22</h2>
            <p>
               			1. He showed me a river of water of life, clear as crystal,
               				proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb,<br/>
               			2. in the middle of its street. On this side of the river and on
               				that was the tree of life, bearing twelve kinds of fruits, yielding its fruit
               every
               				month. <span class="joy righteousness color">The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.</span><br/>
               			3. There will be no curse any more. The throne of God and of the
               				Lamb will be in it, and his servants will serve him.<br/>
               			4. They will see his face, and his name will be on their
               				foreheads.<br/>
               			5. There will be no night, and they need no lamp light or sun
               				light; <span class="joy praise color">for the Lord God will illuminate them. They will reign forever and ever.</span><br/>
               			6. He said to me, “These words are faithful and true. The Lord God
               				of the spirits of the prophets sent his angel to show to his bondservants the
               things
               				which must happen soon.”<br/>
               			7. “Behold, I come quickly. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed is he who keeps the words of
                  				the prophecy of this book.</span>”<br/>
               			8. Now I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. When I
               				heard and saw, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel who had shown
               me
               				these things.<br/>
               			9. He said to me, “See you don’t do it! I am a fellow bondservant
               				with you and with your brothers, the prophets, and with those who keep the words
               of
               				this book. Worship God.”<br/>
               			10. He said to me, “Don’t seal up the words of the prophecy of
               				this book, for the time is at hand.<br/>
               			11. He who acts unjustly, let him act unjustly still. He who is
               				filthy, let him be filthy still. He who is righteous, let him do righteousness
               				still. He who is holy, let him be holy still.”<br/>
               			12. “Behold, I come quickly. <span class="joy praise color">My reward is with me, to repay to
                  				each man according to his work.</span><br/>
               			13. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the
               				Beginning and the End.<br/>
               			14. <span class="joy praise color">Blessed are those who do his commandments,that they may have
                  				the right to the tree of life, and may enter in by the gates into the city.</span><br/>
               			15. <span class="anger righteousness color">Outside are the dogs, the sorcerers, the sexually immoral,
                  				the murderers, the idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood.</span><br/>
               			16. I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify these things to you
               				for the assemblies. I am the root and the offspring of David, the Bright and Morning
               				Star.”<br/>
               			17. The Spirit and the bride say, “Come!” He who hears, let him
               				say, “Come!” He who is thirsty, let him come. He who desires, let him take the
               water
               				of life freely.<br/>
               			18. I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of
               				this book, if anyone adds to them, <span class="anger violence petitioning color">may God add to him the plagues which are written
                  				in this book.</span><br/>
               			19. If anyone takes away from the words of the book of this
               				prophecy, <span class="anger violence petitioning color">may God take away his part from the tree of life, and out of the holy
                  				city</span>, which are written in this book.<br/>
               			20. He who testifies these things says,“Yes, I come
               				quickly.”Amen! Yes, come, Lord Jesus.<br/>
               			21. <span class="joy praise petitioning color">The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with all the saints.</span>
               				Amen.
               		</p>
         </div>
      </div><script scr="colorcode.js"></script></body>
</html>