<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Psalms and Revelations</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        <div id="conclusion" class="closed">
            <h1>Conclusion</h1>
            <p>Once we marked up the entirety of Psalms and Revelations and conducted our analysis,
                we were able to come to a number of conclusions regarding our research. Our original
                research questions: what is the emotional tone and language of the book of Psalms
                and the book of Revelations? And, is there any variation from the Old Testament to
                the New Testament? were both answered, and we also found some surprising occurences
                of overlaps between tones and emotions that we were not expecting.</p>

            <p>For Psalms, the emotion and tone intersections were much higher than that of
                Revelations, supporting the debate that the Old Testament tends to be more emotive
                than the New Testament. Revelations tended to have a much smaller count overall,
                again supporting the debate of Old versus New Testaments. As a whole, a few of the
                overlaps that we found surprising in the range of tones and emotions were between
                joy and violence, coming in with a count of 154 instances in Psalms, and 75
                instances in Revelations, making for the highest overlap of tone and emotion in the
                whole book. In the same manner, joy and righteousness came in with a surprising
                count of 208 in Psalms. On the lower side of the spectrum, but still surprising, we
                found that the emotion of fear only overlapped with the tone of fear once, and the
                tone of anxiety twice.</p>
                
                <p>While those counts did surprise us, there were a few counts
                we were expecting. Praise and joy showed up the most in Psalms with an overall count
                of 701 instances. Righteousness and anger overlapped in Psalms 318 times, making it
                the second largest count following joy and praise.</p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
